Welcome to the 

**Warcraft 3**

**Editor **

**Ability Insight**

**document**

Created by:  ScrewTheTrees  aka   Fredrik Grimmenhag

Current Document Maintainers: ScrewTheTrees

**You are not allowed to distribute a copy of this document on another
website or as your own work.**

**You are however allowed to link to this document anywhere and
download/edit copies for personal use.**

***Contribution***

You are totally free (and also encouraged to) add more information and
content to this document. As well as updating information and content.

Useful contributions from people are labeled in purple parenthesis such
as: (\_username\_) (You have to add this yourself when you type your
contributions.)

This does not relate if you are just fixing spelling mistakes or
changing the phrasing, only if you actually update the information.

You don't have to add username to your contributions if you don’t want
to. But people who contribute deserve recognition.

See the Cargo Hold skill for an example on how to implement your
contributions.

If you want the template for adding an ability you can Search(Ctrl+F)
**Template **with a **@ **in front of it.

***Protips***

As of Patch 1.28.2, Blizzard has provided us with an excellent &
consistent method of giving units ‘hidden’ abilities (i.e. abilities
that do not show up on the command card), that avoids the tricky usage
of the Spellbook exploit. Simply set your ‘hidden’ ability Button
Position values to \[X = 0\] and \[Y = -11\] (shift-click to enter a
negative value). 

This feature works regardless of how many ‘hidden’ abilities are used,
and allows both Passive & Active abilities to work. 

Abilities left here might or might not have their keyboard shortcuts
disabled, it varies from ability to ability. (Assume that the ability is
gonna have it deactivated)

As of Patch 1.30 Blizzard has improved compatibility of “buff stacking”
allowing the same abilities with different buffs to stack with each
other. Previously only a few abilities (mostly auras) allowed buff
stacking but now a wide array of abilities are supposed to allow it.

Not all abilities allow buff stacking, viewer discretion advised.

This document does not currently distinguish well between negative
damage / healing and healing / negative healing. There are technical
reasons why those differ from each other like negative healing not
rewarding kill credit. And negative damage losing healing power based on
targets armor/magic resist and similar.

Field natives

Some ability values may be modified by the Ability Field natives. Such
as:

native BlzSetAbilityRealField takes ability whichAbility,
abilityrealfield whichField, real value returns boolean

native BlzSetAbilityRealLevelField takes ability whichAbility,
abilityreallevelfield whichField, integer level, real value returns
boolean

This is a very powerful tool to adjust how much bonus an ability
provides or how it behaves on a per unit basis.

However, there are weird quirks around these fields. In some cases you
can directly set values, in other cases you have to increase then
decrease the ability, or in the case of auras temporarily remove the
buff they give, so the newly set value can be refreshed when the aura
buff reapplies.

For all these fields and their quirks look at Tasyen’s data
[here](https://www.hiveworkshop.com/pastebin/b2769ab71109c3634b3115937deaa34a.24187).
(emperor\_d3st)

***Document information / Formatting***

This document have certain tags such as: 

Dummy AbilityDamage Over TimeStackableHealing Over Time

And etc.

These tags allow for you to technically “Search” for abilities that
might be related to what you are searching for.

Want a damage over time ability? Search(Ctrl+F) Damage Over Time with \[
\] around it and all abilities with this tag should be found.

All of these tags are contained in the Index at the bottom of the
document. Search(Ctrl+F) **Index **with a **@ **in front of it.

Or just scroll down, I am not your mother.

s/e mean Self Explanatory

All the ability names have a **-** dash at the front of them, so that
you can Ctrl+F find them. Example: **- Cargo Hold **(Remove the space in
front of Cargo.)

1)  **Please note that everything might not be up to date with the
    latest version, please check (Latest tested version)**
2)  **Please mind that there is a lot of data missing. A lot of missing
    things have the TODO tag.**
3)  **If an ability is missing you can use the template at the bottom of
    the document.**

<span id="anchor"></span>@Table of Contents:

**Put @ in front of the tag to go to its section when searching for it
(Ctrl + F)**

  - > Table of Contents

  - > Human

  - > Orc

  - > Undead

  - > Night Elf

  - > Neutral Hostile

  - > Neutral Passive

  - > SpecialC

  - > Template

  - > Index

  - > Trivia

<span id="anchor-1"></span>@Human:

<span id="anchor-2"></span>-Aerial Shackles:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[Suppressed\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Triggered immediately if allies are nearby. Casts if the
caster is under attack.

RawCode: Amls

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Damage per second”
    
      - > At values below 0.0 the number appears to be converted to a
        > positive number and deal damage regardless.

  - The enemy gets suppressed and cannot do anything for the duration
    (basically stun effect).

  - Stackable: No, one unit can be affected by one shackles only

  - Bugs: Whenever caster dies at the same moment as Shackles are being
    applied (let's say, the target has channeled some damage ability
    towards the caster, and interrupting him instantly caused ability to
    deal damage), the link won't be ever removed and leave visual
    glitchy lightning for whole game until both units are
    removed.(DracoL1ch)

<span id="anchor-3"></span>-Barrage:

Tags: \[Multi Attack Target\]

Notes: Can be repurposed as a multi attack ability, Just make sure to
change “Targets Allowed”

RawCode: Aroc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Damage Per Target” and “Maximum Total Damage” don't do anything.
    Probably deprecated in favor of using the attacks actual damage.

  - Maximum Number of Targets below 0 means no extra missiles.

  - By default it always causes the unit to shoot 3 projectiles, but if
    you put Max Targets to 1 and Max Damage to 2, Barrage will only
    affect 2 units (including primary target). (DracoL1ch)

  - If you set values of “Damage Per Target” and “Maximum Number of
    Targets” to 0, and “Maximum Total Damage” to X, then at most X
    *additional* projectiles will be launched. (Prometheus3375)
    
      - > If X = 0, then the ability will target all enemies in its
        > range. (Prometheus3375)
    
      - > If X = 1, then the ability will target 1 enemy in its range
        > but two projectiles appear due to the normal attack flying
        > against the primary target. (Prometheus3375)

  -  
    
      - > No missiles if negative or 0.

  - Critical Strike Proc prevents barrage usage

<span id="anchor-4"></span>-Call to arms (both):

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Amil Amic

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The TownHall version only dictates the range from which to search
    peasants.
    
      - > It’s defined in “Area of Effect”.
    
      - > Effectively it just causes all nearby peasants in range to
        > cast “Call to arms”.

  - Setting the duration to 0 on the peasant version causes the militia
    to last forever.
    
      - > Setting the duration below 0 causes all the militia to last
        > forever, except the “militia” bar is empty instead. only a
        > visual difference.
    
      - > Setting the duration to 0.01 causes the unit to switch between
        > militia and peasant faster than the rendered can actually
        > detect (so it’s instant pretty much).
    
      - > Anything above 0.10 would work as you expect.

  - Changing the changed unit type of militia to peasant effectively
    just makes them change into themselves.
    
      - > The peasant cannot use Repair/Build/Gather while in militia
        > form regardless though.
    
      - > Other workers cannot use them either.
    
      - > If the other unit does not have the same Call To Arms ability
        > as the peasant, the game crashes when the duration runs out.
    
      - > “Normal Form Unit” Does not appear to actually matter, but
        > keep it proper anyway.

<span id="anchor-5"></span>-Cargo Hold:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting ability's cooldown to 0 will NOT disable attack (DracoL1ch)

  - Setting the Cargo Capacity over 11 and having units entering causes
    the game to crash. (Tal0n)
    
      - > Setting it below 0 and having units entering causes the game
        > to crash.
    
      - > Setting it to 0 makes it so that the ability, when given to a
        > unit, disables its attack(s). Handy to disable Auto attacking.
        > (Khyrberos)
        
          - Only works with Cargo Hold (Orc Burrow).
    
      - > The 11th unit won’t display in the list of units. (Tal0n)

<span id="anchor-6"></span>-Devour Cargo:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Similar to Cargo Hold except it deals damage per second.
  - Cargo Capacity is fixed to 1 if set to a number over 0. Setting it
    below 0 and having units entering causes the game to crash.
  - Damage per Second, even if set to a number below 0, can still deal
    damage to any unit inside. (To be specific, it gives them negative
    life regeneration, thus no one is given credit for the kill if they
    die.)
  - Can contain both enemies and allies. (Doomshep) 
  - Units can be unloaded if given the proper ability. (Doomshep)
  - Only friendly units inside the cargo are affected by triggers that
    change life or deal damage. (Nudl)

<span id="anchor-7"></span>-Cloud:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\] \[Buff Stackable\]

Notes: By setting Targets Allowed to either Friend or Enemy it can be
used as either an AOE enemy debuff, or AOE friendly buff. Or vice versa
:^)

Casting by AI: Spams any defensive building (ranged and/or melee),
usually when attacking towns

RawCode: Aclf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Cloud is probably the most versatile AOE channel ability

  - Targets - Allowed “Not Self” does not function properly on this
    ability.

  - “Attack Speed Modifier” and “Movement Speed Modifier”
    
      - > At any value over 0.0 the speed increases by that amount (i.e.
        > at 1.0 the attacks are twice as fast), this includes the
        > animation.
    
      - > At any value below 0.0 the speed decreases by that amount
        > (i.e. at -.5 the attacks should be twice as slow) includes the
        > animation.

  - Attacks Prevented turns off all kinds of the defined attack types,
    i.e. “Melee” would be melee attacks from footmen and ”Ranged” would
    be ranged attacks from archers and "Special" disables attacks that
    only have "Tree", "Debris" or "Wall" in the "Combat - Attack x -
    Targets Allowed" field; e.g. most workers have an invisible second
    attack that can only target trees (It’s based on the AttackType of
    the unit). (Selaya)
    
      - > Spells refer to the casting of spells, effectively it’s an AOE
        > channeled “silence”.
        
          - **WARNING\!** if this AOE silence hits the caster and the
            caster is a valid target, the effect will disappear but the
            caster will have the “Cloud” Buff forever while being
            silenced. (Removal of buff through triggers needs further
            testing)
          - Not even another unit throwing the same buff on that unit
            will remove the effect, they are effectively soft locked to
            the effects of the ability.
          - This does not occur if another dragon rider throws the cloud
            ability on the channeling dragon rider, only if they hit
            themselves.

  - Chance To Miss is essentially just a value between 0.0 and 1.0 where
    it all units affected by the cloud (not units outside) gets a chance
    to miss on their attacks.
    
      - > A 0.40 chance to miss would be a 40% chance to miss.
    
      - > Values below 0 does not appear to do anything.
    
      - > Values above 1 works as if they were 1.0.
    
      - > The effect appears to stack with evasion (with slight
        > diminishing returns) .

  - Buff Stackable Clouds can stack on top of each other, all they need
    to do is reference different “Stats - buff” for it to work. An easy
    way to do this is to simply make a copy of the “Cloud” buff and set
    your new Cloud Abilities “Stats - Buffs” to that new Cloud Buff
    which will effectively display both the buffs on the target
    character and also stacking the values. (The stacking of the same
    modifiers might need further testing.)

<span id="anchor-8"></span>**-Control magic:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: A different version of Charm

RawCode: Acmg

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

(Notes below by RoyGBV)

  - “Data - Charge for Current Life” doesn’t do anything.

  - “Data - Mana per Summoned Hitpoint” controls the mana spent by the
    caster upon casting this ability.
    
      - > This ability calculates the total manacost by the following:
        
          - *(current HP of the target summoned unit) \* “Data - Mana
            per Summoned Hitpoint”*
    
      - > The ability cannot be cast when the above formula returns a
        > real value that is greater than your current mana.
        
          - Despite this, the ability still allows you to select targets
            when you have enough mana to actually click on the ability
            icon itself (specified in “Stats - Mana Cost”), even if you
            can’t actually target anything since the “Not Enough Mana”
            message pops up (by default in War3, its 25).

  - “Data - Maximum Creep Level” works similarly to that of Charm, it
    controls what levels of units can be cast by this ability.

  - The two duration fields, “Hero” and “Normal” don’t do anything.
    
      - > Upon cast, this ability resets the expiration timers of
        > summoned units, if they had one.

  - This ability is hard-coded to be only cast on enemy summons, the
    “Stats - Targets Allowed” field only concerns what kinds of
    summons these are, be it units, wards, or even buildings.

  - Just like Charm, this ability removes all debuffs, including Doom,
    on the target upon cast. 

<span id="anchor-9"></span>-Defend / -Magic Defense:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Taken Decrease\] \[Percent Damage Taken
Increase\] \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\]

> \[Percent Magic Taken Decrease\] \[Percent Magic Taken Increase\]
> \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Magic Immunity\]

Notes: Ironically it’s very flexible for defend, but that’s because it
was also made for spell breakers to have a magic defense. But instead
they just got immunity.

Casting by AI: Activated in the same manner as Divine Shield, but only
if the caster is being attacked by a unit with Piercing damage or Magic
damage (If ability is set to shield against Magic damage as well).

RawCode: Adef Amdf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack Speed Factor”
    
      - > Values above 0 decrease attack speed by specified
        > percent(1=100%). (Prometheus3375)
    
      - > Values below 0 increase attack speed by specified
        > percent(1=100%). (Prometheus3375)

  - “Data - Movement speed factor”
    
      - > Values above 0 decrease movement speed by specified
        > percent(1=100%). (Prometheus3375)
    
      - > Values below 0 increase movement speed by specified
        > percent(1=100%). (Prometheus3375)

  - Chance to Deflect is the percentage chance to deflect either Magic
    or Piercing entirely.
    
      - > Clamped between 0.0 and 1.0.

  - Damage Dealt is the percentage that dictates the damage given to the
    unit.
    
      - > i.e. 2.0 would give the footman double damage.
    
      - > Negative values are rounded back to 0, no heal.

  - Damage Taken is the percentage damage Taken.
    
      - > Negative values are rounded back to 0, no heal.
    
      - > 2.0 is double damage taken.

  - Deflect damage taken (Piercing)(Spells) is the damage taken if the
    deflect goes through
    
      - > Negative values are rounded back to 0, no heal.
    
      - > 2.0 would be double damage.

  - Magic damage reduction is identical to “Damage Taken” but for magic.

<span id="anchor-10"></span>

<span id="anchor-11"></span>-Dispel Magic:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Adis

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Summoned Unit Damage

<span id="anchor-12"></span>-Feedback:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: It appears that the Damage ratio only dictates how the mana
drained is converted to damage. But any total damage less than 0 gets
rounded up to 0.

RawCode: Afbk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Max mana drained”
    
      - > Positive values drain target’s mana
        
          - If the damage ratio is below 0.0 the target will not heal.
    
      - > Negative values restore target’s mana
        
          - If the damage ratio is above 0.0 it will not heal the
            target.
          - If the damage ratio is below 0.0 the target will take damage
            while restoring mana.

  - “Summoned Damage” 
    
      - > Negative values will not heal the summoned unit.

<span id="anchor-13"></span>**-Flak Cannons:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aflk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  -  It's a passive ability that works kind of like a mix of Pulverize
    and the Splash Attack on the “Combat 1(or 2)” section of a unit, in
    that it uses flat values to deal damage, but its fields are
    reminiscent of the one found in Combat.
  - Deals physical damage and uses your attack type for the splash
    effect.

<span id="anchor-14"></span>-Flare:

Tags: \[Vision\] \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Afla

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Flare count dictates how many times the skill can be used.
    
      - > The default setting at 0 is unlimited
    
      - > Setting negative will instead do so that every time the skill
        > is used, it will keep decreasing (i.e. -1 =\> -2) and etc.
        > every time it’s cast. Effectively making a “Times ability has
        > been cast” counter.
        
          - Should be noted that i don’t know what happens after the -13
            point.

  - Setting the Area of Effect to 0 causes it to give no vision.
    Effectively making it a dummy ability.
    
      - > Negative values causes it to be treated as 0.

  - Effect delay is the time it takes until the flare vision actually
    starts.
    
      - > Setting to a negative value treats it as 0.
    
      - > The unit cannot move while this Delay is active, so setting it
        > high will cause the unit to just stand around looking dumb
        > until the flare comes down. That effect cannot be canceled by
        > moving/attacking/etc.. only if a silence/stun comes in.
    
      - > Unlike “Casting time” however, the “shooting” animation plays
        > when you start casting the ability. Playing the animation
        > before the wait duration.
    
      - > The ability won’t go on cooldown until the flare is actually
        > “fired”.

  - If your unit has a string under Required Animation Names, using
    flare as a dummy ability will remove the string.

<span id="anchor-15"></span>**-Flying Machine Bombs:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Doesn't do anything, it’s all handled by the Upgrade.

RawCode: Agyb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-16"></span>**-Fragmentation Shards:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Similar to Flak Cannons, but only works on units with Unarmored
and Medium armor types.

RawCode: Afsh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Ranged splash attack that’s an ability.
  - Negative AOE is considered as zero.

Heal

<span id="anchor-17"></span>-Heal:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Text

Casting by AI: Used when caster or any nearby allies take
significant/any/moderate damage.

RawCode: Ahea Anhe

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Cannot be cast on units with full life.

  - Setting Hit Points Gained to negative causes negative healing.
    
      - > The "Healer" won't get kill credit for units killed with
        > negative healing.
    
      - > Ignores spell resistance/immunity.

  - Disables auto attacking while autocast is enabled and target is in
    range.

  - When toggling on autocasting, the unit will attempt the unit with
    the lowest % health in range and will keep healing until full.
    
      - > Stopping the unit or giving another order will cause the unit
        > to reset this behavior.
    
      - > If the priest is idle it will also toggle between targets
        > occasionally.

<span id="anchor-18"></span>-Inner Fire:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Flat Armor
Increase\] \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Text

Casting by AI: Spammed randomly? May be a preference for high level
units (e.g. Frost Wyrm or Tauren).

RawCode: Ainf ACif 

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Damage increase dictates the damage percentage
    
      - > Only affects base damage, damage bonuses from items or other
        > abilities/auras are not included.
    
      - > Anything above 0 gives more damage
    
      - > Anything below 0 removes damage
        
          - \-1.0 is the lowest it can normally go. (Not tested with
            items such as “Claws of attack +12”, might stack with that).
          - It cannot go below the units base damage, so the unit is
            still dealing randomized “Dice” damage.
          - Example: a unit with 30-59 damage is gonna get a -30 damage
            debuff at maximum.

  - Defense increase changes armor
    
      - > Works as you expect both positively and negatively.

  - Life Regen Rate.
    
      - > Causes the unit to receive a healing over time of the
        > specified amount per second. Does not modify unit life
        > regeneration, for example standard undead units will still
        > receive this healing over time when not on blight. Values less
        > than 0 are not damage but instead are negative healing over
        > time. Does not reward any kill credit for deaths it causes.
        
          - Basically Life regen rate works like Unholy Aura, in that it
            only adds a percentage value to your health regeneration.
            (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-19"></span>**-Invisibility:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Occasionally casts on retreating friendly heroes with
moderate to low health

RawCode: Aivs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Transition Time dictates fade time, how long the hero will start
    visually becoming transparent before being invisible.

<span id="anchor-20"></span>**-Magic Sentry:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Building (Unit) version of True Sight

RawCode: Adts

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - ^ look at Notes

<span id="anchor-21"></span>-Phoenix Fire:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing\]

Notes:Null

RawCode: Apxf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Damage Per Second is the amount of damage that unit takes per
    second.
    
      - > Applied every second.
    
      - > Values greater than or equal to 0 will deal damage.
    
      - > Values below 0 will be healed. As the value is negative the
        > amount will be removed from current life and no kill credit
        > given. Possibly a missing negation bug in Warcraft III.

  - Initial Damage is the damage the unit takes when the projectile
    hits.
    
      - > All values, even negative, will cause damage as normal.

  - The time between taking damage is dictated by the buff applied.
    Which is dictated by how long it lasts by “Stats - Duration”.

  - Impact Damage might trigger several times against the same target if
    your “Art - Missile speed” or “Stats - Cooldown” is too low.
    
      - > You can get around this by increasing either or both of those.
    
      - > It appears to be because the buff is not applied until the
        > missile actually “hits”.

  - The buff icon might not show up, (Needs more data for
    verification\!). (Krotos)

  - Can't affect the Source itself.(Krotos)

  - "Stats - Cooldown" uses only 1. Level.

<span id="anchor-22"></span>**-Phoenix Morphing:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aphx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - If used to convert a hero temporarily to a normal unit upon death,
    reverts the hero to level 1 (Needs more data for verification\!).
  - Can be used to change units from one unit to another if the
    alternative unit has a different phoenix morphing ability. (Yeti)

<span id="anchor-23"></span>**-Polymorph:**

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aply

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Disables most of default passive abilities (f.i. Evasion, Damage
    block, Critical Strike (despite the critter being unable to
    attack...))
  - Unit Levels are ignored, if the Maximum Creep Level is set to 0 or
    below.
  - Can't Target Summoned Units.
  - Kills Illusions on cast.
  - Negative duration leads to an empty expiration Time in the UI.

<span id="anchor-24"></span>**-Reveal:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AHta AIta

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Works similarly to Goblin Lab’s Reveal, except no gold cost, on a
    longer cooldown and only used by Arcane Towers.

<span id="anchor-25"></span>-Slow:

Tags: \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Attackspeed
Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]

Notes: Easy and versatile, can easily be a buff spell.

Casting by AI: Spammed randomly? May be a preference for high level
units (e.g. Frost Wyrm or Tauren) Casted when a friendly unit takes
damage(source: Azure tower defense hawkriders slow spell)

RawCode: Aslo ACsw

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Attack Speed Factor” and “Movement Speed Factor”
    
      - > Anything above 0 slows the attack speed.
    
      - > Anything below 0 increases the attack speed.

<span id="anchor-26"></span>**-Spell Steal:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Below notes aside, this works just like Abolish Magic

RawCode: Asps

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  -  Targeting an enemy unit causes all of its positive buffs to fling
    as a projectile to your nearest ally (prioritizes allies who don't
    have a stolen positive buff).
    
      - > If there are no allied units in the area or if everyone has a
        > stolen positive buff, it will transfer to you instead (dispels
        > the enemy if you also have a stolen buff).

  - Targeting an allied unit does the opposite thing listed above,
    gathering all negative debuffs and flinging it as a projectile to
    the nearest enemy, prioritizing those who don't have a stolen
    negative debuff.

If there are no enemy units in the area or if every enemy has a stolen
positive buff, it will simply dispel the ally instead.

  - Uses the “Area of Effect” field for the range of buff transfers.
    (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-27"></span>**-Sphere**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: The balls circling around the Bloodmage

RawCode: Asph

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Each time an attack is made or a spell is cast, one of the caster’s
    attachments will vanish. By default, these use the Blood Mage’s
    “ball” art. The attachments don’t have to all have the same art.
    (EternalOne)
  - Each time an attack is made or a spell is cast, a missile will be
    fired at the target (or target point.) This happens even if there
    isn’t normally a projectile art involved. This is why only the Blood
    Mage has a ball fly towards the target of his Flame Strike. As a
    side note, this doesn’t have to be the same art as the attachments.
    (EternalOne)
  - The cooldown dictates how long it takes for the lost attachments to
    reappear. (EternalOne)
  - Can be used simply to add art to any figure, although requiring the
    model to have whatever attachment points are used. (Yeti)

<span id="anchor-28"></span>**-Storm Hammers:**

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Doesn't do anything, it’s all handled by the Upgrade.

RawCode: Asth

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

<span id="anchor-29"></span>-Sundering Blades:

Tags: \[TODO\]\[Percent Damage Increase\]\[Flat Damage Increase\]\[Flat
Damage Decrease\]\[Percent Damage Decrease\]\[Stackable\]

Notes: An ability that makes the unit do more damage to armor types.
Warcraft3 V1.31+

RawCode: Ahsb

Latest tested version: 1.31.1.12164

  - Bonus Damage (Percent) is computed before Bonus Damage (Flat)

  - Bonus Damage (Flat)
    
      - > Values above 0 cause more damage.
    
      - > Values below 0 cause less damage

  - Bonus Damage (Percent)
    
      - > Values above 0 cause more damage
    
      - > Values below 0 cause less damage

  - Defense Type Affected

  - Stacking Sundering Blades:
    
      - > Starts with the Last Added and iterates all the way up to the
        > first.

  - Computes Bonus Damage (Percent) & Bonus Damage (Flat) of one
    Sundering Blade then swaps to the next. The result of the previous
    is the base for the new

  - Ignores allowed Targets of the ability

  - Red floating text from Critical Strike doesn’t show bonuses from
    this ability, but the actual damage dealt does stack if a unit has
    both this ability and critical strike (Somen00b). 

<span id="anchor-30"></span>

<span id="anchor-31"></span>**-True Sight:**

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Shows invisible or burrowed enemies.
  - Doesn't care about unit's vision range or vision type
    (flying/ground). (DracoL1ch)
  - All truesight sources are working on the same ingame timer of 0.5 s,
    means it reveals invisible units on each tick and not constantly,
    allowing them to pass undetected if they are moving fast enough.
    (DracoL1ch)
  - Detection type setting has no real impact at game process as it
    reveals both types anyway. (DracoL1ch)

<span id="anchor-32"></span>-Avatar:

Tags: \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Damage
Decrease\] \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Health Decrease\] \[Flat
Health Increase\]

Notes: The only negative part seems to be that you can’t disable the
magic immunity.

RawCode: AHav ANav

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Damage, Defense and Health bonuses operate the same way.
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases the stat.
    
      - > Anything below 0 decreases the stat.

  - Setting the health to a negative value causes the MK to die.
    
      - > Upon reviving the MK’s life value will be in underflow,
        > essentially making him invulnerable for the rest of avatars
        > duration.
    
      - > Once the Avatar duration runs out his health gets turned back
        > to normal.
        
          - This includes if the duration runs out while he is dead.
    
      - > Check “item permanent life gain” for more info.

  - Magic Damage Reduction does nothing as he gets magic immunity
    regardless.

  - If you cast Avatar just as Metamorphsis’s duration runs out so that
    the hero is still increasing in size, and only the alternate form
    has the Avatar Ability, the hero’s model will become invisible.
    (Didn’t test what if anything reverts this) . (KitsuneTailsPrower)

<span id="anchor-33"></span>-Banish:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: A very “in engine” ability, hard to manipulate because of it.

Casting by AI: Trigger when in cast range, has a preference for summoned
units.

RawCode: AHbn ACbn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Removing “Banish” as a buff from the ability does not prevent the
    unit from going Ethereal.
  - Both enemy and friendly units take more damage when ethereal.
  - The amount of extra damage taken is based on a Gameplay Constant.

<span id="anchor-34"></span>**-Bash / -Critical Strike:**

Tags: \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent
Damage Decrease\]

Notes: While very very similar they do have some weird interactions with
each other.

RawCode: AHbh AOcr

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - Warcraft 3 is very funny about Critical Strike and by default it
    will handle a 4.99% chance Critical Strike as 0%. A few years ago
    this bug was fixed, but you have to enable the fix. In your map go
    to Scenario / Map Options and enable Use Accurate Probability for
    calculations\! (emperor\_d3st)

  - Damage Multiplier dictates how much the damage is amplified.
    
      - > At -1.00 no damage is dealt.
        
          - Damage value is not displayed.
    
      - > Below 0 no damage is dealt.
        
          - Damage value is displayed as 0.
    
      - > At 0 full damage is dealt.
        
          - No damage value text is displayed (on melee units only,
            shown for ranged attacks tho).
    
      - > At 0.01-0.99 only 1%-99% of the total damage is dealt
        
          - Damage value is displayed.
    
      - > At 1.00 full damage is dealt
        
          - Damage value is simply displayed as the damage being dealt.
    
      - > Anything above 1 increase the damage
        
          - Damage value is displayed.

  - Damage bonus dictates how much flat damage is added.
    
      - > This damage is independent of Damage Multiplier, the damage
        > multiplier damage is only based on the units normal damage.
    
      - > Setting it to a value so that Damage bonus is less than the
        > unit’s maximum damage causes either the unit to be slightly
        > healed… or slightly damaged. (Needs more testing\!).
    
      - > Flat bonus-damage is magical spell-damage -\> is
        > blocked/modified by spell immunity/resistance.

  - The “Stats - Buffs” value is actually applied to the enemy unit on
    successful Critical/Bash.
    
      - > The amount of time the buff is applied is dictated by “Stats -
        > Duration”.

  - If a unit has both Bash and Critical Strike and they trigger
    together on the same attack.
    
      - > Both the damage values show up as text (if applicable).
    
      - > Both the buffs are applied (if you add a buff to Critical
        > strike).
    
      - > Only the highest damage from Damage Multiplier value is
        > actually applied to the enemy unit.(Only the highest critical
        > actually counts).
    
      - > Damage Bonus appears to stack somehow, at 100/100 the damage
        > ended up at 250 damage instead. (Needs more testing\!).

  - Chance to miss and Chance to Evade dictates evade chance for
    attacks. (Needs testing\!).

  - Chance to miss/chance to evade Values range from 0.0 to 1.0 with 1.0
    being 100% evasion chance. (KitsuneTailsPrower)

  - Plays "Caster art" effect whenever evasion happens (You must set the
    chance to miss / chance to evade above 0.0) (KitsuneTailsPrower)

<span id="anchor-35"></span>**-Blizzard:**

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Damage Over Time\]\[Stackable\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Will cast if there are at least 2 to 3 units in a group.

RawCode: AHbz

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - "Value - Cast Time" is the interval between waves.
    
      - > Setting this value to 0.01 or below triggers only 1 Wave and
        > an Unit can only be affect one time by Blizzard Waves using
        > this specific "Blizzard (Caster)" Buff until lost again, which
        > won't happen under normal circumstances, DpS buff will still
        > be applied..
    
      - > Setting this value to 0.02 or above causes it to trigger
        > correctly.
    
      - > Has a Hardcoded damage delay (ca. 0.9 seconds) to fit the
        > default Blizzard Shard falling.

  - "Value - Buff" Defines Dps Buff and Stackability
    
      - > DpS Buff and Wave-damage Buff are Independent.
    
      - > Blizzard's DpS Buff does stack with Unique "Blizzard" Buffs
    
      - > DPS Buff is not applied, if the Wave-Damage is exactly 0.
    
      - > Blizzard's Wave-damage does stack with Unique "Blizzard
        > (Caster)" Buffs.
    
      - > Without any "Blizzard (Caster)" Buff, Wave-damage stacks
        > always.
    
      - > "Blizzard (Caster)" Buff is not shown in the UI.

  - "Value - Duration Hero/Unit" Defines the duration of the DpS Buff on
    Hero/Unit
    
      - > Buff Duration of 0 will apply no DpS buff and no DpS damage.

  - If multiple Blizzards with the same Buff affect one target, the one
    with the highest damage wins.

  - "Data - Damage" Defines Wave-Damage
    
      - > Heals with Damage equal to 0 or below and does not trigger
        > Damage-Events in that Case.
    
      - > spell immunity blocks the healing; Even making the spell
        > ultimate does not change this.
    
      - > Deals magical spell-damage with Damage above 0.

  - "Value - Max Damage" Defines the maximum Damage of one Wave
    
      - > At 0 a Wave can deal Unlimited Damage.
    
      - > Above 0 Damage will be split equally to all affected targets,
        > if a Wave would deal to much damage.
    
      - > Below 0, Changes it into an AoE Healing Spell, regardless of
        > the default damage.
    
      - > Positive Wave-damage allows to split the Healing equal, if
        > healing exceeds max damage (Healing).
    
      - > Negative Wave-damage ignores the max damage cap.

  - "Data - Building Reduction":
    
      - > Blizzard gave it a wrong Name. It's a simple Multiplier.
    
      - > Setting it to 0 -\> No damage/Healing to buildings.
    
      - > Setting it between 0 and 1 -\> buildings take reduced
        > damage/Healing.
    
      - > Setting it above 1 -\> buildings take additional
        > Damage/Healing.
    
      - > Setting it to a negative Number reverts healing to damage for
        > buildings and reversed.
    
      - > Does only work on the Wave-Damage.

  - "Data - Damage a second" Defines Buff DpS
    
      - > Deals magical Spelldamage.
    
      - > First hit is instantly applied at Wave Impact.
    
      - > With DpS below 0 it reduces HP with additional ca. 66%
        > bonus-damage, without Triggering Damage-Events. Ignores Spell
        > Resistance, but Spell Immunity blocks it.

<span id="anchor-36"></span>-Brilliance Aura:

Tags: \[Mana Drain\] \[Mana Regen\] \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: Can use “Targets Allowed” to redirect the buff.

RawCode: AHab

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Mana Regeneration”
    
      - > “Percent bonus” can be applied to add/drain from max mana
        > instead, and functions correctly.
        
          - If a hero learns/levels Brilliance Aura with a percent bonus
            while carrying an item that gives bonus mana the new
            regeneration rate will be based on its current total mana,
            if the item is removed the regeneration rate does not
            decrease. 
          - Vice-versa too, if it learns/levels Brilliance Aura and
            afterwards picks up an item that gives bonus mana it’s
            regeneration rate will stay the same.
    
      - > Remember that 1.00 equals to 100%, and 0.01 equals to 1%, if
        > you're going to use percentage-based values.
    
      - > Anything above 0 causes the unit to regenerate mana.
    
      - > Anything below 0 causes the unit to lose mana.

<span id="anchor-37"></span>-Devotion Aura:

Tags: \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[AOE Supportive\]
\[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: Can use “Targets Allowed” to redirect the buff.

RawCode: AHad

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - “Data - Armor bonus”
    
      - > If using Flat values (Non Percent)
        
          - Anything above 0 adds armor.
          - Anything below 0 removes armor. 
    
      - > If using percent instead.
        
          - Anything above 0 adds armor? The amount added is not what
            you expect.
          - Anything below 0 removes armor? The amount removed is not
            what you expect.
          - The reason why this is the case is because using percentage
            values only uses the amount from “Combat - Defense Base”,
            meaning that armor given by items and from agility points
            are NOT taken into account (0.0 is 0%, 1.0 is 100%).
            (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-38"></span>**-Divine Shield:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Casts when attacked, often just before the caster is
dealt damage or hit by a non-friendly spell to avoid taking any damage.
The health of the unit isn't a factor for it's casting.

RawCode: AHds

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Becomes invulnerable and Immune to Magic.

  - Does not break currently Actions.

  - Has unlimited Duration with "Value - Duration" = 0 or below.

  - On Cast:
    
      - > Dispels magical based Buffs, even if they are marked as
        > Ultimate.
    
      - > Dispels Buffs which can't target invulnerable Units.

  - Ultimative/Physically Spells containing invulnerable in targets can
    place buffs on Units protected by Divine Shield, Except Stuns
    (Stormbolt, Firebolt etc).

  - Is cancelled by “Monsoon” and “Starfall” (Probably others as well.
    Needs more testing.)
    
      - > All invulnerability abilities are canceled by channeling
        > abilities, except the Scroll of Town Portal item

<span id="anchor-39"></span>-Flame Strike:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing Over Time\]
\[Stackable\]

Notes: Text

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 2 clustered enemy units in area of
effect. (Nudl)

RawCode: AHfs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Damage values below 0 heals the target.
    
      - > The building reduction is applied to both healing and damage.

  - Damage Interval is the tickrate between damage.
    
      - > Setting this value to 0.01 or below causes it to only trigger
        > once.
    
      - > Setting this value to 0.02 or above causes it to trigger
        > correctly.
    
      - > Setting this value to 0.02 causes manslaughter.

  - The “Stats - Effects” Actually dictates flames that are left on the
    ground.
    
      - > Even without an Effect, the damage will still be Dealt. The
        > source is just invisible.

  - “Stats - Duration - Hero” Dictates how long the “Full” damage will
    be dealt.

  - “Stats - Duration - Normal” Dictates how long the “Half” damage will
    be dealt.

  - Removing the “Flame Strike” from “Stats - Buffs” causes a cute
    little “Tool Tip Missing”.

  - A Unit can be affected by multiple Flamestrikes with different
    "Flamestrike" Buffs at the same time.

  - Even though this ability applies damage over time, it only damages
    trees once. If trees are regrown while the spell is still active, it
    will not apply damage to them again.

<span id="anchor-40"></span>-Holy Light:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Text

Casting by AI: Spam on any nearby Undead units or friendly non-Undead
units, prefers heroes. /Death Coil is same function as Holy Light but
with opposite targets. It's been noticed while doing some Tank/Spank
boss fights that if the hero is taken a LOT more damage then the heal,
the healer or himself(if he has this spell) he STOPS casting it

RawCode: AHhb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Amount Healed/Damaged"
    
      - > Setting this to below 0 reverses the effect (Deal full damage
        > to allies and heal enemies for half damage).

  - Damage Targets are: Units with the Class “Undead” or Units of the
    Race “Demon”.
    
      - > This behavior is hard-coded

<span id="anchor-41"></span>-Mass Teleport:

Tags: 

Notes: You could technically use this to “Copy paste” unit templates…
should you use “false”

RawCode: AHmt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting “Data - Number of Units Teleported” to -1 turns it into
    unlimited units teleport.
    
      - > Other negative values are treated as positive values.
    
      - > Setting it to zero causes only the Archmage to be teleported.

  - Use teleport clustering defines how the units are teleported.
    
      - > At true all the units will be “clustered” around the point of
        > arrival.
    
      - > At false all units will be in the same spread as they were
        > before the teleport, relative to the archmage.

<span id="anchor-42"></span>**-Phoenix:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AHpx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Area below 0 summons behind the summoner

<span id="anchor-43"></span>**-Resurrection:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Cast if there are friendly dead units nearby.

RawCode: AHre

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Is "Amount of Revived Units" below 1 no Unit is Revived, but the
    Spell is only used if there are corpses around.

  - Can't Revive Heroes.
    
      - > Still true even when the Hero has “Combat - Death Type” set to
        > “Can raise, Doesn’t decay”.

  - Can Revive Units from any Player if wanted, they won't change their
    owner.

  - Triggers the "Summons an Unit"-Event for each Unit revived.

  - The Units keep their HandleId and trigger added Abilities, but
    triggerly added Inventory (and maybe some other abilities) will
    disappear. (Prometheus3375)

  - Resurrection does prefer units with higher Levels.

  -  After sorting by the highest level, the units closest to the caster
    are revived. (Somen00b)

<span id="anchor-44"></span>-Siphon Mana:

Tags: \[Mana Drain\] \[Mana Regen\] \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\]

Notes: Succ\! Slurp, and other non sexual and sexual slurping noises.

RawCode: AHdr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Mana/Hit Points Drained” defines how many points are transferred
    every “Draw Interval(seconds)”.
    
      - > Anything above 0 causes the caster to gain mana/health and the
        > target to lose mana/health.
    
      - > Anything below 0 causes the caster to lose mana/health and the
        > target to gain mana/health

  - Requires a gameplay constant to be changed to allow mana transfer,
    otherwise it can only steal/give the mana.
    
      - > When set to True with appropriate Targets Allowed field
        > settings, allows you to transfer mana to allies, and still
        > drains mana from enemies. (You can’t give mana to enemies this
        > way). This behavior appears to be hard-coded.

<span id="anchor-45"></span>**-Storm Bolt:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Literally just a simple point-and-click stun that uses a
projectile.

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down, has preference to target
heroes.

RawCode: AHtb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Can target allied units if modified.
  - Setting damage to negative values heals the target upon projectile
    impact.

<span id="anchor-46"></span>**-Summon Water Elemental:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Its free real estate\!

Casting by AI: Casts when caster or nearby allies are engaging enemies.

RawCode: AHwe

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Area is the distance between the summoned and summoner in the facing
    direction.
    
      - >  One can use a value below 0 to summon behind the caster

  - When an unit has multiple versions of this ability, it uses all of
    them at the same time.
    
      - > This also respects cast times, Manacosts, cooldowns of each.
    
      - > The unit will start channel all the abilities. When the cast
        > time of one finished it will use it and trigger the
        > Effect-Event

  - Only works correctly when cast time of the first triggering summon +
    unit backwing time contains all cast times

  - This is a “stackable” summon, meaning that successive casts will not
    destroy/kill previous summoned units.

<span id="anchor-47"></span>-Thunder Clap:

Tags: \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Attackspeed
Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] 

Notes: Sadly you cannot apply any of the above tags to allies. It’s
hardcoded to only hit enemies

Casting by AI: Will cast if there are 2 to 3 units around the caster.
May not be used if air units are present (despite being allowed to hit
them to).

RawCode: AHtc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680.

  - This debuff cannot be dispelled by Purges.

  - “Attack/Movement Speed Reduction” defines how much those are
    reduced.
    
      - > Setting this to any value above 0 causes the unit to
        > attack/move slower.
    
      - > Setting this to any value below 0 causes the unit to
        > attack/move faster.

<span id="anchor-48"></span>@Orc:

<span id="anchor-49"></span>**-Ancestral Spirit:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Only works on Taurens

RawCode: Aast

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Seems to be hardcoded to only work on units with the “Tauren” tag
    under the ”Stats - Unit Classification” checklist. (RoyGBV)
  - “Stats - Cast Range” determines the seek range (more like AOE) of
    the Spiritwalker to cast this ability. If there are no Tauren
    corpses nearby, the ability is not cast. Setting the value to 0
    requires the caster to literally be on top of the corpse, while
    setting it to higher values allows the caster to revive Tauren
    corpses from a distance. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-50"></span>-Battle Stations:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Disable shortcut key, hide the ability. Transports that can only
transport certain units. Profit?

RawCode: Abtl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Allowed Unit Type” Defines what unit is allowed inside the
    transport.
    
      - > No other units can be picked up other than the defined unit.

  - Causes the Nth \[Transport Size\] closest units of \[Allowed Unit
    Type\] within the \[Area of Effect\] radius to try and enter the
    transport.

  - Increases the attack speed of the Transporting Unit (i.e. Orc
    Burrow) by 100% for each unit in cargo.

  - Enabling enemy targeting in combination with the ‘Devour - Cargo’
    ability allows you to draw in enemy workers (Kino)
    
      - > Changing the targets allowed to include enemies on the
        > standard Cargo Hold ability does nothing

  - Having multiple levels with different ‘Data - Allowed Unit Type’
    allows the loading of different unit types.

  - Setting ‘Data - Allowed Unit Type’ field to empty does not work
    (Kino)

<span id="anchor-51"></span>-Berserk:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Movespeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Percent Damage Taken Increase\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Used in combat, will not cast if outnumbered.

RawCode: Absk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Doesn't interrupt unit's orders on activation, allowed to use even
    while channeling.

  - “Attack Speed Increase” s/e
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases attack speed.
    
      - > Anything below 0 decreases attack speed.

  - “Movement Speed Increase” s/e
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases movement speed
    
      - > Anything below 0 decreases movement speed.

  - “Damage Taken Increase” s/e.
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases damage taken (percentage)
    
      - > 0 has no effect
    
      - > Anything below 0 
        
          - Becomes immune to Attacks
          - Converts taken spelldamage to healing.
          - heal by damage \* (1 + taken multiplier); -1 -\> 2 x
            healing. -2 -\> 3 x healing
          - Other Sources of Spell resistance reduces the healing..

<span id="anchor-52"></span>-Bloodlust:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Movespeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Ablo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Doesn't stack with itself, regardless of buff id. Causes permanent
    visual model's size bugs when 2+ Bloodlusts with different model
    scale are mixed.

  - “Attack Speed increase” increases attack speed
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases attack speed.
    
      - > Anything below 0 decreases attack speed.

  - “Movement speed increase” Increases movement speed.
    
      - > Anything above 0 increases movement speed
    
      - > Anything below 0 decreases movement speed.

  - “Scaling Factor” Is the size increase of the unit.
    
      - > Setting it to 0 cause no size change.
    
      - > Anything above 0 causes the unit to “grow”.
    
      - > Anything between -0.01 and -0.99 causes the unit to shrink
    
      - > At -1.00 the unit is technically not visible anymore.
    
      - > Anything below -1.00 causes the unit to “Invert” upon itself,
        > effectively turning it inside out.
        
          - Ground units will be put “underground” with their feet
            occasionally sticking out.
          - Air units will just turn inside out.
    
      - > Any value below 0 causes the units selection circle to mess
        > up.
        
          - Any unit who has the “Bloodlust” ability will also
            experience this, even when they are not buffed.

<span id="anchor-53"></span>-Burning Oil:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Effectively it’s just a flamestrike that occurs “on attack”
instead… and also does not heal.

RawCode: Abof

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Damage Dealt is the values that define the damage
    
      - > Any damage above 0 deals damage.
    
      - > Any damage below 0 gets converted back into a positive number,
        > still dealing damage.
    
      - > The building reduction only works above 0, below 0 it gets
        > rounded back up to 0.

  - Damage Interval is the tickrate between damage.
    
      - > Setting this value below or at 0 causes it to devastatingly
        > kill anything it hits. by triggering several times every 0.01
        > seconds.
    
      - > Setting this value above 0 functions correctly

  - The “Stats - Effects” Actually dictates flames that are left on the
    ground.
    
      - > Even without an Effect, the damage will still be Dealt. The
        > source is just invisible.

  - “Stats - Duration - Hero” Dictates how long the “Full” damage will
    be dealt. (how long the full-damage fire lasts on the ground)

  - “Stats - Duration - Normal” Dictates how long the “Half” damage will
    be dealt. (how long the half-damage fire lasts on the ground)

  - Doesn’t work if the unit weapon type is “Normal”, “Instant” or
    “NONE”. (Uyarrr)

<span id="anchor-54"></span>**-Corporeal Form:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Acpf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-55"></span>-Detector:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Provides vision over either burrowed or invisible units in an area
    around it.
    
      - > Area of effect appears to be defined by “Stats - Cast Range”

<span id="anchor-56"></span>-Devour:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed on anything that can be targeted, may prefer
units with higher levels.

RawCode: Adev

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Noms down a unit, placing it in cargo space.
    
      - > The ability cannot be cast if the amount of units inside the
        > cargo space is above 0.

  - Grants a 400 AOE flying vision over the devouring unit until its
    devoured unit dies. (obtained by estimates, needs more testing)
    
      - > “Duration - Hero” and “Duration - Normal” don’t appear to do
        > anything.

  - Setting a unit’s race to Demon grants them immunity to being
    devoured

<span id="anchor-57"></span>**-Disenchant:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Basically just re-skinned Dispel Magic

RawCode: Adcn Adch

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Not much to see here

<span id="anchor-58"></span>**-Ensnare:**

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aens

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Brings an air unit to the ground, snaring it in the process.

  - Will ignore magic immunity depending on the “Gameplay - Ensnare
    Checks Magic Immunity” Gameplay constant.

  - “Data - Melee attack range”
    
      - > Setting this allows for you to change the attack range of
        > units. (Tal0n)
    
      - > Only works with certain units, reasons why currently unknown.
        > (Tal0n)

<span id="anchor-59"></span>-Envenomed Spears:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Attackspeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Stackable\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aven

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The “Damage Per Second” defines the damage taken per second.
    
      - > Negative values get converted to positive ones, still doing
        > damage.

  - “Attack Speed Factor” and “Move Speed Factor” reduce the AS or MS of
    the target unit.
    
      - > Values above 0 decreases speed.
    
      - > Values below 0 increases speed.

  - Stacking Type Defines what values stack with each other.
    
      - > The values are Damage, Movement, Attack Rate and Kill Unit.
    
      - > The same units attack does not stack against the same target,
        > you must have several units to apply more than 1 stack.
    
      - > Different versions of Envenomed Spears stack against the same
        > unit with their own values? (Need testing).
    
      - > Without "Kill Unit"-Flag, Hit points don't get reduced below
        > 1.0..
    
      - > This Ability applies 2 independent Buffs. If any Flag except
        > "Kill Unit" is set the second is used.
    
      - > A unit can suffer both Buffs at the same time, each buff deals
        > its own damage-Instance.
    
      - > The damage source is overwritten each time the Buff is applied
        > again.

  - Ethereal Units are unaffected by this Ability.

  - AI:
    
      - > Causes autoattack to prioritize units who are not affected by
        > poison yet.

<span id="anchor-60"></span>**-Ethereal Form:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aetf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-61"></span>-Healing Ward / -Sentry Ward:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Ahwd Aeye

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Making the healing ward ability summon no unit will crash the game.
    ( Abovegame )
  - The above is probably the same as most other Summon abilities. For
    obvious reasons.
  - Healing Ward doesn’t technically have an AOE, but it will always
    show a 500 AOE circle when you’re casting it. The same is true for
    abilities based on it. (EternalOne) 

<span id="anchor-62"></span>-Healing Ward Aura:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[AOE
Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aoar

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Hit Points Regenerated refers to the Flat or Percentage based
    healing.
    
      - > Have a value below 0.0 causes the unit to start taking damage.
        
          - The unit will only start taking damage if it’s health is NOT
            full.
    
      - > Anything above 0.0 cause healing.
    
      - > The visual only shows on units that are missing health
        > (Doomshep)

<span id="anchor-63"></span>-Lightning Shield:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: No, this does not work as a temporary “Immolation” buff

RawCode: Alsh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Deals damage per second to everyone around target.
    
      - > Setting to a value below 0.0 causes healing.
    
      - > Any value above 0.0 causes damage.

  - The ability “Stats - Targets Allowed” defines which targets you can
    cast lightning Shield on. One can not change the targets taking
    damage.

  - The damage source of Lightning Shield is the buffed unit.
    
      - > Except when it comes to experience, then it's the casting
        > unit.

  - Killing neutral Hostile units with this ability doesn’t appear to
    grant the kill gold bounty and experience bounty. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-64"></span>-Liquid Fire:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Attackspeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aliq

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Attack Speed Reduction” and “Move Speed Reduction” 
    
      - > Values above 0 decreases speed.
    
      - > Values below 0 increases speed.

  - “Extra Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Setting the value negative causes it to get converted to a
        > positive number instead.

  - Spell makes proper use of “Targets Allowed” removing “Structure”
    causes it to be applied to anything attacked.

  - As of 1.35.0, units with the liquid fire buff can now be repaired,
    but their repair rate is slowed by 75%.

<span id="anchor-65"></span>**-Pack Mule:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Apak

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - A copy of unit inventory with 4 slots and no upgrades required. Kodo
    Beast have it. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-66"></span>-Pillage:

Tags: 

Notes: Text

RawCode: Asal

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680, 1.27

  - Accumulation Step dictates how many hits needed to get the Resources
    from the target.
    
      - > Anything above 0 acts normal.
    
      - > Setting to 0 or below causes warcraft 3 to enter an infinite
        > loop, effectively freezing the game.

  - Salvage Cost Ratio seems to control the ratio of damage to resources
    using the building's resource costs.
    
      - > More information on how this is calculated would be
        > appreciated.(notes below are by RoyGBV)
    
      - > This shares the same data fields as Unsummon Building (which I
        > wrote a ton of details about), but is instead appended to the
        > attacking unit, and still allows the building being attacked
        > to be interacted with and repaired.
    
      - > Just like Unsummon Building, “Data - Salvage Cost Ratio”
        > refers to the total percentage of the building’s gold and
        > lumber cost to be returned upon its destruction, and not per
        > attack.
    
      - > “Data - Accumulation Step” has some differences from its
        > equivalent in Unsummon Building
        
          - Instead of ticking resources every 1 second, it instead
            ticks when the HP lost by the building is equal to the value
            set.
            
              - > HP lost refers to the damage dealt by attacking units
                > with the Pillage ability, after reductions and
                > amplifications by armor type.
        
          - Setting this value to be greater than 1 also causes the
            resources gained to become divisible by the value you set,
            causing resources gained to be sometimes less than the
            percentage set in “Salvage Cost Ratio”, which is why it's
            best to leave it at 1, as all numbers are divisible by 1.
            
              - > Setting it to zero causes the game to freeze, you’re
                > dividing by zero
        
          - The amount of resources gained per tick uses this formula:
            \[(Building’s max HP) / (Accumulation Step)\] set upon
            building construction completion and does not adapt, (all
            remainders are ignored).
            
              - > This means that if the building takes damage (or gets
                > repaired) from other units without Pillage, you lose
                > (or gain) some of the resources.
        
          - For example, a unit’ attack deals 100 Chaos Damage on a
            Building with 1000HP that cost 500G and 300L to build,
            assuming that you set Accumulation Step to 1, and Salvage
            Cost Ratio to 0.50, you should gain 25G and 15L per attack.
            
              - > Sometimes though, due to decimal rounding
                > calculations, resources gained will be a point more or
                > less than the supposed percentage amount, it becomes
                > more prevalent when many units are attacking (eg:
                > instead of 250G, it becomes 249G).
    
      - > Calculation of resources is the same for as long as units with
        > Pillage are the ones attacking, regardless of unit count, unit
        > type, unit damage, and even damage type. (assuming you set
        > Accumulation Value to 1, otherwise it's not smooth sailing)
        
          - This means that Pillage DOES NOT stack, and that you should
            not put multiple units with Pillage to attack a single
            building, instead try to spread them out to attack other
            buildings to maximize resources gained.
    
      - > This ability doesn’t seem to work on buildings (or units) with
        > exactly or more than 10,000 HP for some reason.(needs more
        > testing) EDIT: It actually works, it’s just that the resource
        > calculation is so small that the resources gained often ends
        > up getting rounded down.
    
      - > Pillage does not gain resources from buildings under
        > construction, or have not yet finished building.
        
          - When a building is upgrading itself (eg: Town Halls), it
            uses the gold and lumber cost of the building of the base
            Town Hall, as the upgrade has not yet finished. If Town Hall
            upgrades have finished, it uses the gold and lumber cost of
            that instead.
    
      - > Works with ranged units, with the resource gained upon
        > projectile impact provided that it doesn’t miss.
        
          - Similarly, resources are gained after successful projectile
            impact, and after all damage reductions and amplifications
            have been calculated.
          - Attack modifier abilities such as Searing Arrows or even
            Critical Strike do not count in resource calculations.
          - Siege units that deal splash damage do not gain resources
            when using the Attack Ground command to deal damage. It must
            be a unit targeted Attack order.
          - Ranged units that deal splash damage do not gain resources
            on the units hit by the splash damage, only the primary
            target grants resources.
          - Same thing applies for Missile (Bounce) and Artillery (Line)
            attack type units, as well as units with Cleaving Attack
            ability, only the primary target gains resources.
    
      - > Adheres to Targets Allowed, allowing you to gain resources
        > when attacking enemy units. Does not work on allied/friendly
        > units and buildings.
        
          - When attacking units, and even buildings, their researchable
            upgrades and abilities (some of them) are also taken into
            account in cost calculation. However, they only seem to take
            the first tier of weapon/armor upgrades on units that have
            any tier of them.  
            (needs more testing)

<span id="anchor-67"></span>**-Pulverize:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Awar

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This passive can play a sound\! Sound - Effect Sound will play on
    procced attack.

<span id="anchor-68"></span>-Purge:

Tags: \[Suppressed\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aprg Apg2 ACpu

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - xxxx Pause Duration” dictates how long the unit is
    suppressed, or rather “paused” from taking any action.
    
      - > Negative value does nothing.

  - Movement Update Frequency supposedly changes the factor of which the
    unit is slowed.
    
      - > A value below 0 appears to do nothing.

  - Can be cast on trees with Sentinels (owls) on them.

<span id="anchor-69"></span>**-Reinforced Burrows Upgrade:**

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Doesn't do anything, it’s all handled by the Upgrade

RawCode: Arbr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The one thing that this ability does is add the metal blocks to the
    four sides of Burrows and Watch Towers once the upgrade is in
    effect. Upgrades can’t add attached effects, after all. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-70"></span>**-Sentry Ward:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aeye

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Targeted Summon Skill.
  -  Sentry Ward always turns the unit it summons invisible for the
    spell’s duration. (EternalOne) 

<span id="anchor-71"></span>**-Spiked Barricades:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Spiked Carapace for buildings, but deals flat damage instead

RawCode: Aspi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-72"></span>-Spirit Link: 

Tags: \[Percent Damage Taken Increase\] \[Percent Damage Taken
Decrease\]

Notes: Next generation trolling, no pun intended.

Casting by AI: Casts on friendly units that are engaged

RawCode: Aspl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Distributed Damage Factor” is the % of the damage redirected to
    other units.
    
      - > At 1 and above no damage is distributed.
    
      - > At 0 approx 100% is distributed to other targets.(including
        > self)
    
      - > At any value below 0, all units linked are gonna start taking
        > more damage.

  - The damage sharing ignores distance and whenever they are actually
    “linked” from the same skill cast.
    
      - > In reality you can have 2 Spirit walkers on the opposite sides
        > of the map casting the buff, and the damage will still be
        > distributed between all units whom are “Spirit Linked”.
    
      - > The link also works towards allied units with the buff.
        
          - So technically in a melee game you can apply the buff to
            your allies peasants and then run a few tanky suicidal units
            into the enemy base.
    
      - > Does not share the “unit takes damage” with enemies. But if
        > you throw the buff at an enemy they will get their own sided
        > buff.

  - You can reverse the spell to deal more damage to linked enemy units
    by having a dummy (owned by target enemy unit) cast the spell.
    However this change for whatever reason is known to desync as of
    1.31.1 (Nudl)

<span id="anchor-73"></span>**-Stand Down:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-74"></span>**-Stasis Trap:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Asta

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Targeted Summon Skill.

  - Summon will turn invisible at the end of Data - Activation Delay
    (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401) 

  - Data - Stun Duration: Unit stun duration.

  - Stats - Duration - Hero: Hero stun duration. (TGleds)

  - Data - Detonation Radius: Determines the AoE range of the Stun… But
    also the size of the AoE targeting image for the Casting Unit
    (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401) 

  - Data - Detection Radius: Determines how close a target needs to get
    to the summoned unit before it will ‘detonate’ (IF it has already
    been ‘primed’) (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401) 

  - Data - Activation Delay: Determines the amount of time before the
    summoned unit A) turns invisible & B) becomes ‘primed’ (able to
    ‘trigger’ on a target in its Detonation Radius, turning visible
    momentarily, dying, and creating the AoE stun). (Khyrberos,
    1.26.0.6401) 
    
      - > At X \> 1, it takes X seconds to do this.
    
      - > At X =\< 0, it is summoned immediately ‘primed’ (invisible &
        > able to ‘trigger’)

  - Stats - Duration - Normal: Timed life of the summoned ward.
    
      - > Modifying the normal duration through
        > BlzSetAbilityRealLevelField will prevent Stasis Trap from
        > stunning.

<span id="anchor-75"></span>**-Unstable Concoction:**

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Auco

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - If you change the Targets Allowed to include friendlies, you can
    still cast this ability on them, but the caster won’t die when you
    do. They’ll just go flying at the target and then stop. (EternalOne)
    
  - I did some tests on 1.32.10, changing targets allowed to Allied,
    Friend, Ground makes the unit explode an ally and itself. Tested on
    ground units. Requires more testing.

<span id="anchor-76"></span>-War Drums: 

Tags: \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\] \[Flat
Damage Decrease\] \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE
Disabling\]

Notes: I wonder if you can buff stack it?

RawCode: Aakb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Attack Damage Increase changes damage values.
    
      - > Negative values decrease damage aura.
    
      - > Positive values increase damage aura.

  - Adheres to “Stats - Targets Allowed” so it’s possible to direct the
    aura at (for example) Enemies only.

  - It stacks with Command Aura.

<span id="anchor-77"></span>-Big Bad Voodoo: 

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Mostly hardcoded.

RawCode: AOvd

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Adheres to “Stats - Targets Allowed” so it’s possible to direct the
    aura at (for example) Enemies only.

<span id="anchor-78"></span>-Bladestorm: 

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Magic
Immunity\]

Notes: Mostly hardcoded.

Casting by AI: Used at random, appears to use immediately if many
enemies nearby.

RawCode: AOww

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Adheres to “Stats - Targets Allowed” so it’s possible to direct the
    damage at (for example) Allies only.
  - Negative damage values Heal instead.
  - Can't disable magic immunity.
  - AI units seem to use it randomly, will use it immediately if enemies
    close enough
  - The buff prevents multiple Bladestorm affecting the same target.
  - Even when there’s no buff or effect, Bladestorm still prevents you
    from casting other abilities for its duration.
  - Disables the caster’s autoattack, except against magic immune units.
    The caster will attack magic immune units as usual, except with no
    animation. Untested with ranged units. (Strikest)

<span id="anchor-79"></span>-Chain Lightning / -Healing Wave: 

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Multi Attack Target\]

Notes: They are pretty much the same.

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 3 clustered enemy units in cast range
(CL). Cast whenever cooldown is off. Ignores disabled units.

RawCode: AOcl AOhw

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Damage Reduction per target. defines how much damage/healing is lost
    per bounce
    
      - > Negative values increase Damage/Healing instead.

  - The only difference between the abilities is that Chain Lightning
    WILL NOT bounce to allies.
    
      - > And vice versa for Healing Wave

  - Jumps every 0.25 seconds.

  - Chain Lightning jumps to the nearest visible enemy not affected yet.

  - Healing wave prefers allies with the least hit points.

  - While the lightning is bouncing, the caster can not cast the same
    chain-ability.

<span id="anchor-80"></span>-Earthquake:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: AOE channeled slow, the ground wobbling effect seems to be
hardcoded

RawCode: AOeq

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-81"></span>-Endurance Aura: 

Tags: \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Movespeed
Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: I called my test version “Fat Aura”

RawCode: AOae

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Attack Speed Increase” and “Movement Speed Increase”
    
      - > Values above 0 increases speed.
    
      - > Values below 0 decreases speed.

<span id="anchor-82"></span>**-Far Sight:**

Tags: \[Vision\] \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: N/A

RawCode: AOfs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Provides vision in an area, or no vision if area set to 0.
  - Enemies cannot see that you cast this ability on them. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-83"></span>**-Feral Spirit:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AOsf

Latest tested version: 1.34.0.19632

  - Standard Summon Skill

  - Recasting Feral Spirit with still living summons of that spell, will
    unsummon them.

  - When an unit has multiple versions of this ability, it uses all of
    them at the same time.

  - Feral Spirit summons will despawn if their summoner is removed from
    the game, even if their expiration timer is not finished

  - Unsummons when the Ability is lost.

  - “Stats - Area of Effect” (Kino)
    
      - > The distance at which the summons are created ahead of the
        > caster
    
      - > Negative numbers cause the summons to be created behind the
        > caster

<span id="anchor-84"></span>**-Hex:**

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed on non-heroes, may target a lone hero.

RawCode: AOhx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting the “Stats - Duration” to -1 causes it to last forever
    
      - > Casting “Dispel Magic” makes the unit go back to normal.

  - The better Polymorph

<span id="anchor-85"></span>**-Mirror Image:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Cast if the caster is attacked a certain number of times.
Used immediately if the caster is about to be hit by a spell.

RawCode: AOmi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Below 0 it does not heal the target it hits.

  - Attacking an illusion will not redraw aggro, you can attack one to
    detect whether it’s an illusion or not (Nudl).

  - Unsummons the Illusions when the Ability is lost.
    
      - > This includes disabling or removing the ability through
        > triggers. The illusions stay if the ability is simply hidden.

  - “Data - Damage taken”
    
      - > Below 0 it does not appear to take damage at all.

  - “Data - Number of Images” (Kino)
    
      - > If set to 0, the caster will still turn invulnerable and be
        > displaced

  - “Stats - Cast Range” (Kino)
    
      - > Affects the distance the caster and illusions are displaced
    
      - > The invulnerability window is affected by cast range/missile
        > speed

  - Reveals higher ground while casting if standing near a cliff
    
      - > Provides flying vision around the caster for the duration of
        > the Split Time

  - When creating a New Custom Ability that’s based off of Mirror Image,
    the illusions spawned by the ability will no longer level up when
    the caster levels up. This behavior seems to be strictly reserved
    for the original spell only.

<span id="anchor-86"></span>**-Reincarnation:**

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Not much to say about it, it revives the unit like an Ankh.

RawCode: AOre

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Doesn't trigger when the unit is hidden (ShowUnit (u,false) )
    
      - > This includes units in cargo holds (Kino)

  - Doesn't trigger when the unit dies on unpathable terrain

  - “Data - Mana Cost”
    
      - > If the unit dies with insufficient mana it will not
        > reincarnate.

  - “Data - Reincarnation Delay”
    
      - > Values below 0 causes the unit to reincarnate instantly.

<span id="anchor-87"></span>**-Serpent Ward:**

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Plants near enemies every cool down.

RawCode: AOsw

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Targeted Summon Ability.

<span id="anchor-88"></span>**-Shockwave:**

Tags: \[Healing\] 

Notes: The look on his face when he thought i would throw the healing
wave his way.

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 3 clustered enemy units in cast
range. (Nudl)  
Casting by AI: AI casts Carrion Swarm way more often when compared to
the shockwave. (Uyarrr).

RawCode: AOsh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Ground deformation performed locally, causing Z axis to differ
    between players.

  - Ground deformation cannot be toggled off, use Carrion Swarm instead
    if you don't like the lag.

  - Despite the settings, can never target allies or spell immune units.

  - If you remove the buff (by trigger/code) Shockwave from units hit,
    they can take another damage pulse from the same shockwave. That way
    a shockwave deals up to 10 times the amount of damage (as set in
    Object Editor) per second as long units are in the shockwaves aoe.

  - “Data - Damage”
    
      - > Negative values heal.

  - “Data - Distance”
    
      - > Negative values cause the entire skillshot to fly backwards
        > instead.

<span id="anchor-89"></span>**-Voodoo Spirits:**

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AOls

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This is a copy of the undead Crypt Lord ultimate “Locust”

<span id="anchor-90"></span>**-War Stomp:**

Tags: \[AOE Disabling\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Will cast if there are 2 to 3 units around the caster.
May not be used if air units are present (despite being allowed to hit
them to).

RawCode: AOws

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Stuns targets around the unit for “Stats - Duration”

  - “Stats - Damage”
    
      - > Negative values does Heal.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed”, allowing it to stun (for example) only
    mechanical units.

  - The neutral versions have additional fields allowing you to modify
    the terrain deformation… I don’t think they work though.

  - Can not be dispelled.

  - Can't affect Buildings even with changed “Targets Allowed”. The
    default Unit versions and their clones can.

<span id="anchor-91"></span>**-Wind Walk:**

Tags: \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Can be used to make a Dummy on click ability by modifying the TT
and duration due to not interrupting orders/having any cast.

Casting by AI: Used when the AI-controlled units are near death

RawCode: AOwk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Backstab Damage”

<!-- end list -->

  -   - > Setting it to 0 negates the extra damage (but still shows that
        > (zero) damage in a floating red numeral ???) (Khyrberos)
    
      - > Negative values does not heal the target.
        
          - They do however reduce from the total damage dealt.
    
      - > Backstab damage won't happen unless the hero \*is\* invisible
        > when he attacks (so negating it through the above methods
        > results in no bonus damage) (Khyrberos)

  - “Data - Backstab”
    
      - > Ignore Evasion

  - “Data - Movement Speed Increase”
    
      - > Negative values do slow the character down.

  - “Data - Transition Time” (Khyrberos)
    
      - > Setting the TT to HIGHER than the duration: results in the
        > hero never truly becoming invisible. HOWEVER, he still sorta
        > fades out (kinda see it bad in the Portrait; shows through
        > himself a bit) unless you make set TT to the max (\~300).
        > (Khyrberos)
    
      - > Setting the TT to 0 results in: no Invisibility\! &, seemingly
        > (for low durations) no Fading\! (Khyrberos)

  - Does not appear to conflict with current orders; You can make a
    Move/Attack order & then cast WW en route & he'll do it. (Khyrberos)

  - Uses alternate order queue, doesn't interrupt unit in any way, even
    if he is channeling something.

  - On the other hand, windwalk order does interrupt everything if
    issued via triggers.

  - Animation Names does not seem to work. (Khyrberos)

  - WW still cannot path over un-pathable terrain.

  - WW sets units to use item pathing. In old versions items will block
    them. In new versions only WW uses this, items use no pathing.
    
      - > Except that might be a bug and is changed again.
    
      - > We truly do not know.

  - A ranged attack fired before using windwalk will not end the
    windwalk or trigger a critical. (Templarfreak)
    
      - > A slow moving projectile attack that is performed from inside
        > a previous windwalk won't end the current windwalk (but will
        > apply backstab damage from the previous windwalk.)
        > (Templarfreak)

<span id="anchor-92"></span>@Undead:

<span id="anchor-93"></span>**-Absorb Mana:**

Tags: \[Unused\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aabs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This is a generic and plain ability, only thing worthy of note is
    that in the game, it drains all of the target unit’s mana, since its
    Max Mana Absorbed values are set to 99999 in Object Editor by
    default. There is also a Max Life Absorbed field set to 0 by
    default, setting it to a positive value does the same thing as the
    mana component itself, but it's on HP. (RoyGBV)
  - Using negative values flips the effect over, instead causing the
    target unit to gain mana upon cast, and when the projectile arrives,
    you lose mana, and it also alerts your unit red as if an enemy spell
    was cast onto it. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-94"></span>-Anti Magic Shell (Magic Resistance): //is
this the “new” one (says “(Magic Resistance)” in Editor Suffix), or the
old/OG one? @TODO

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aam2 Aams

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The current Anti-magic Shell seems to be derived from the old one,
    except the Shield Life is set to zero, meaning that if you altered
    the Shield Life on the “newer” one, it will work exactly like the
    old one. (RoyGBV)

  - “Data - Shield Life”
    
      - > A positive number causes the shield to only be able to
        > withstand magic until the shield runs out of health.
    
      - > A negative number causes it to break the first time it’s hit.
        
          - It still appears to deal damage.

<span id="anchor-95"></span>-Aura of Blight:

Tags: \[Unused\]

Notes: It was originally designed for the Obsidian Statue, then they
switched it to having the Replenish/Replenish Mana, but in the end they
switched it to have Essence of Blight and Spirit Touch. (EternalOne)

RawCode: Aabr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Provides the same kind of healing as fountain of health, being
    either flat healing or percentage based healing, not related to
    blight.

  - Undeads that are standing on blight will stop getting the healing
    effect.

  - Data - Amount of hit points gained.
    
      - > Positive values will provide health per second.
    
      - > Negative values will drain health per second
    
      - > If the unit is at maximum health, health will be neither
        > regenerated or drained (even if negative).
    
      - > In the editor this value shows up as 0.00, when in reality the
        > actual health regen is 0.004 (0.4%).

<span id="anchor-96"></span>-Blight Growth Large / Blight Growth Small:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Abgs Abgl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Expansion Amount”
    
      - > Appears to be the rate at which the Blight spreads after the
        > building finishes.

<span id="anchor-97"></span>-Blighted Gold Mine Ability:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Abgm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Units with this ability are created with a special minimap icon and
    will keep it even if they lose the ability or morph. The icon can be
    accessed from game interface and is player colored unlike something
    like a neutral building icon.

  - “Data - Max Number Of Miners”
    
      - > A negative value crashes the game.
    
      - > Increases/Decreases the max amount of miners needed to work at
        > full efficiency.

<span id="anchor-98"></span>-Burrow:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Abur

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Morphs a crypt fiend into another unit, and applies “burrow
    invisibility” to it.

<span id="anchor-99"></span>-Cannibalize:

Tags: \[Heal Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Triggered when a unit is injured, around 50% HP or less.

RawCode: Acan

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Hit Points Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values deal damage instead.

  - “Data - Max Hit Points”
    
      - > Corpse Search Range

<span id="anchor-100"></span>-Create Corpse:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Agyd

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes the unit to generate Corpses, these corpses can spawn
    anywhere and moving the unit away does not “unlink” previous
    corpses.
  - Changing duration doesn’t affect anything.
  - Setting Maximum number of units to a high value will crash the game
    (1.32.6)

<span id="anchor-101"></span>-Cripple:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Movespeed
Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Percent Damage Increase\]  
\[Percent Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Confirmed to work, but specifications unknown.

RawCode: Acri

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - ”Data - Attack Speed Reduction”, ”Data - Damage Reduction” and ”Data
    - Movement Speed Reduction”
    
      - > Negative values provide positive buffs instead.

  - Doesn't stack with itself, regardless of buff id.

<span id="anchor-102"></span>-Curse:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed on engaged enemy units

RawCode: Acrs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting “Chance to miss” negative does not increase your chance to
    hit the enemy.
  - Doesn't stack with itself, regardless of buff id.

<span id="anchor-103"></span>-Destroyer Form:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aave

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-104"></span>-Devour Magic:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Advm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Life Per Buff” “Life Per Unit” “Mana Per Buff” “Mana Per Unit”
    
      - > Negative values do not make the unit lose health/mana.

<span id="anchor-105"></span>-Disease Cloud (ALL):

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Meat wagon disease cloud spawns a unit when they attack, either unit
    or ground targeted. The unit is forced to become a locust even if it
    isn’t normally.

  - It can be leveled up, to change the type of unit spawned.Only works
    for artillery type attacks.

  - Disease Cloud (Abomination) and Disease Cloud (Plague Ward) is a
    different ability from Disease Cloud (Meat Wagon). (nchp1903)
    
      - > The former have the field “Plague Ward Unit Type” which allows
        > the unit with that ability to spawn a unit of that type upon
        > dying. The unit is also forced to become a Locust.

  - If the summoned unit is transformed to another unit via Chaos, the
    new unit will also remain a Locust. An alternate way to make the
    original unit ‘morph’ into another unit without the Locust ability
    is to set its Timed Life to 0.01, and give it an ability based on
    Spawn Hydra. (1.31)

<span id="anchor-106"></span>-Drop Corpse:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Amed

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Drops all corpses in cargo.

<span id="anchor-107"></span>-Essence of Blight:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: I swear i am helping\!

RawCode: Arpl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Hit Points Gained”
    
      - > Any value below 0 causes damage instead.

<span id="anchor-108"></span>-Exhume Corpses:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aexh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Generates corpses inside a Meat Wagon
  - Triggers an ability being cast event every time.
  - Setting the Cooldown to 0 can result in a strange error which can
    crash the game, after some undetermined length of time. (Khyrberos,
    error found by Wazzz) \[citation needed\]
  - Is the only known passive ability to be able to use a Cooldown
    (Wazzz)

  - (nchp1903) Tests were carried in 1.31 for the points above:
    
      - > “Triggers an ability being cast event every time.”: Only
        > happens when the unit has Cargo Hold (Meat Wagon), or an
        > ability based on it, even if Cargo Capacity, Cast Range, Area
        > of Effect are set to 0, Targets Allowed is set to “None”, and
        > disabled by trigger.
        
          - Even if the fields are set to exactly the same, Cargo Hold
            (Goblin Zeppelin) won’t work with Exhume Corpses. May work
            with other Cargo Holds.
          - Exhume Corpses itself will also work normally if the Maximum
            Number of Corpses is 0. and Unit Type is null. 
          - If a Mana Cost is set, Exhume Corpses won’t be cast if
            there’s insufficient mana.
    
      - > “Is the only known passive ability to be able to use a
        > Cooldown.”: The cooldown will have a wheel, similar to active
        > abilities. However, after the Cooldown is over, it will then
        > wait for Duration - Normal before casting.
        
          - When there are two Exhume Corpses abilities on the same
            unit, they will work with each other, but their interactions
            with Duration - Normal and Cooldown needs further testing.
            Just use Cooldown and ignore Duration - Normal if you want
            them to be separate abilities with separate cooldowns.
          - If you want them to cast one after another, set Duration -
            Normal and Cooldown of both abilities to the same number
            like 1 or 2. Needs testing with 0 or 0.01 or negative
            numbers.

<span id="anchor-109"></span>-Freezing Breath:

Tags: \[Suppressed\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Afrz

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Targets Allowed” can be changed to affect non buildings too.

<span id="anchor-110"></span>-Frost Attack:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down

RawCode: Afra

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Hard coded freezing attack.
  - The only ability which applies it's effect in AoE when having splash
    attack. (DracoL1ch)
  - Uses default frost effect, means slow doesn't stack with other
    sources of frost (Frost Nova, Frost Armor). \[Unless I mistaken it
    with Frost Breath, idk) (DracoL1ch)

<span id="anchor-111"></span>-Frost Breath:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Afrb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The frost wyrms slow. The slow strength and Buff both can be
    modified in gameplay constants. (Tuomas Perkinen)

<span id="anchor-112"></span>-Get Corpse:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Amel

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Picks up nearby Corpse into the Meat Wagon.

<span id="anchor-113"></span>-Ghost:

Tags: \[Vision\] \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Agho

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Appears to turn the unit invisible.

  - Unlike Permanent Invisibility, Ghost allows the unit to go through
    other units that also have Ghost.
    
      - > The SetUnitPathing Native can remove this behavior.

  - Can make the unit immune to Morph.

  - Can be set so that the unit “cannot block buildings”.
    
      - > This allows for you to place/build buildings on that unit.

  - A unit with Ghost will stay invisible even while attacking/casting.
    This is distinct from Permanent Invisibility, which has the unit
    become visible again while doing those things. (EternalOne)
    
      - > This difference is due to Duration - Normal field.
        
          - If set to a positive number, the unit will take that long to
            re-enter invisibility after attacking/casting.
        
          - If set to 0, the unit will remain invisible permanently
        
          - If set to a negative number, the unit will never be
            invisible.
            
              - > This, paired with Auto-Acquire Attack Target = False,
                > can be made into a Hold Fire button for Dummies.
                > Inconsistent for normal units, because they will still
                > attack back if provoked.

<span id="anchor-114"></span>-Locust:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aloc

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Unit can no longer be selected ingame, has no health bar and is
    invulnerable.
  - Locust ability, once added can’t be removed without repercussions.
  - Commonly used to mask “dummy units” casting spells behind the
    scenes.

<span id="anchor-115"></span>

<span id="anchor-116"></span>-Orb of Annihilation:

Tags: \[Flat Damage Decrease\] \[Flat Damage Increase\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Afak

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values causes the unit to lose damage instead.

  - Does not seem to fire an “ability being used” event for triggering
    purposes when used.

  - The bonus damage is the same type as the attack (For example, the
    Destroyer deals magic damage with its attack, so the damage from Orb
    of Annihilation is also magic type.)
    
      - > The ability will not be fired if the target is magic immune,
        > dealing only the normal attacks damage.

  - The splash damage and splash radius of Orb of Annihilation only
    works IF the Weapon Type of the unit itself is Missile - Splash.
    Target of the splash damage adhere to the unit’s Area of Effect
    Targets. (nchp1903)

  - Missile Art doesn’t appear if the attack is melee.

<span id="anchor-117"></span>-Possession:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Apos Aps2

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - If target dies while Possession still channelled and decay
    completed, game will crash \[1.26\]. (DracoL1ch)

  - Sacrifice unit to take control of another unit.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed”, so you can change what it can possess.
    
      - > Can never target allied units.

  - When channel time is complete, it kills the banshee and sends a
    projectile flying towards the target unit.
    
      - > Possession takes effect when the projectile lands.
    
      - > This projectile can be disjointed, wasting the ability.

<span id="anchor-118"></span>-Prioritize:

Tags: \[Unique\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Allows you to give units custom targeting priorities.

RawCode: Aatp

Latest tested version: 1.32.10.18067

  - Data - AOE Damage
    
      - > Unknown currently, speculated to make the unit consider splash
        > damage.

  - The targeting of the unit when this ability is toggled is entirely
    based on Targets Allowed.

<span id="anchor-119"></span>-Raise Dead:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Probably the only 2 leveled unit ability in the base game.

RawCode: Arai

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Hardcoded to only work on corpses.

<span id="anchor-120"></span>-Replenish:

Tags: \[Unused\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Arpb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - An old combination of Essence of Blight and Spirit Touch from an
    early prototype of the Obsidian Statue. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-121"></span>-Replenish Mana:

Tags: \[Unused\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Arpm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - An old version of Spirit Touch from an early prototype of the
    Obsidian Statue. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-122"></span>-Sacrifice:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Asac Alam

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - There does not appear to be any options to change.
  - When a unit finishes sacrificing, a “Unit Dies” event is fired for
    the sacrificed unit that lists the sacrificing structure as the
    killer, immediately followed by a “Unit finishes training” event for
    the resulting Shade. These can be used with triggers to, say,
    replace the unit that appears when different kinds of units are
    sacrificed. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-123"></span>-Spider Attack:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Causes the attack of the carrier of this ability to create a
spiderling attachment, which will create after a duration a missile
leading back to the attacker

RawCode: Aspa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Spider capacity doesn’t have any impact (values from -100 to 100
    were tried)

  - Changing the duration changes the time between the impact of the
    missile and its return

  - Changing “Missile” art will change the main attack, but not the
    returning missile
    
      - > Unfortunately, it locks the missile speed

  - The lingering nerubian attack on the target cannot be edited, it
    seems to be hardcoded

  - Will be overridden by orb effects

  - Doesn’t work with melee attacks

<span id="anchor-124"></span>-Spirit Touch:

Tags: \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Arpm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Mana Points Drained”
    
      - > Negative values do not drain the unit's mana.

<span id="anchor-125"></span>-Stone Form:

Tags: \[Morph\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Astn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Life Regeneration Rate”
    
      - > Setting negative makes it do damage instead.

<span id="anchor-126"></span>-Unholy Frenzy:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Damage Over
Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Auhf

Latest tested version: 1.30.2

  - Units killed by this spell does not drop bounty. (Nudl)

  - “Data - Attack Speed Bonus.
    
      - > Negative values slows instead.

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values gets converted to positive instead, dealing
        > damage regardless.

<span id="anchor-127"></span>-Unsummon Building:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Auns

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Works kinda like Doom for buildings.

  - Upon cast, it prevents further interactions with the building, and
    prevents it from being repaired.

  - “Data - Accumulation Step” is the speed at which it gets destroyed.
    (RoyGBV)
    
      - > This can actually be interpreted as “Damage Per Second”.
    
      - > Damage is dealt in 1-second ticks, starting immediately after
        > cast. (hard-coded)
    
      - > A value of zero causes the game to freeze. (you are dividing
        > by zero)

  - “Salvage Cost Ratio”
    
      - > Percentage of the building’s Gold and Lumber Cost to be
        > distributed evenly over “time”, 0.0 gives none, 1.0 gives back
        > all your resources spent.
    
      - > This “time” is actually calculated by \[(Building’s max HP) /
        > (Data - Accumulation Step)\], to be distributed over 1-second
        > ticks.
    
      - > Resources to be gained per tick is set upon cast, and does not
        > adapt, meaning if the building takes damage (or gets healed)
        > from other sources while unsummoning, you will overall lose
        > (or gain) some of the resources.
    
      - > Values below 0 get rounded up to 0.

  - “Duration - Hero” and “Duration - Normal” does nothing, this ability
    is hardcoded to last forever.

<span id="anchor-128"></span>-Web:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aweb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Brings an air unit to the ground, snaring it in the process.

  - Unlike Ensnare, it’s autocast.

  - There is an item version of this with no autocast, as items have
    issues with it.

  - “Data - Melee attack range”
    
      - > Setting this allows for you to change the attack range of
        > units. (Tal0n)
    
      - > Only works with melee units, reasons why are only melee units
        > can be affected (Tal0n)

<span id="anchor-129"></span>-Animate Dead:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AUan

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Effectively just make copies(corpses) of 6 dead units on the ground,
    summoning them as Invulnerable with timed life.
  - Works like Resurrection, except the units “revived” have the
    “Animate Dead” expiration timer type.
  - Animated units have no abilities, they are removed (passive and
    active).
  - Can be set to make animated units be invulnerable, or inherit the
    upgrades from their original owners.
  - Picks random units around the Area of Effect, prioritizing
    higher-level units.

<span id="anchor-130"></span>-Carrion Beetles:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: I am the 5th beatle.

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down if nearby corpses are
available; but only in combat.

RawCode: AUcb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Heroic ability of “Raise Dead”.
    
      - > Except there is a maximum amount of them out at the same time.
    
      - > And they don't have a duration (0)

<span id="anchor-131"></span>-Carrion Swarm:

Tags: \[Healing\] 

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 3 clustered enemy units in cast
range. (Nudl)

RawCode: AUcs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage”
    
      - > Negative values does heal.

  - “Data - Distance”
    
      - > Negative values cause the entire skillshot to fly backwards
        > instead.

  - “Art - Special” can’t be changed in custom versions. All carrion
    swarms use the field from the base spell.

<span id="anchor-132"></span>-Dark Ritual:

Tags: \[Mana Regen\] \[Mana Drain\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Would make for an excellent Dummy ability… if it didn’t slaughter
the unit targeted.

Casting by AI: Never.

RawCode: AUdr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Life Converted To Mana”
    
      - > Negative values causes the Lich to lose mana instead.

  - “Life Converted To Life”
    
      - > Negative values causes the Lich to lose health instead.

  - Hardcoded to only work with units having the “Undead” tag under Unit
    Classification (apparently).

<span id="anchor-133"></span>-Death And Decay:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: This is my favorite healing spell.

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down.

RawCode: AUdd

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Max Life Drained Per Second”
    
      - > Negative Values cause the units to heal instead.
        
          - Healing on buildings still suffer penalty.

  - Does adhere to “Targets Allowed” allowing for damage/healing on
    allied/enemy units only. -This needs testing on 1.31

<span id="anchor-134"></span>-Death Coil:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Opposite of Holy Light damage/Heal wise.

Casting by AI: Spam on any nearby Undead units or friendly non-Undead
units, prefers heroes. /Death Coil is same function as Holy Light but
with opposite targets. It's been noticed while doing some Tank/Spank
boss fights that if the hero is taken a LOT more damage then the heal,
the healer or himself(if he has this spell) he STOPS casting it.

RawCode: AUdc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Can’t target enemy Undead units. A good alternative missile spell is
    Acid Bomb, just set duration to 0.02. (Nudl)

  - “Amount Healed/Damaged"
    
      - > Setting this to below 0 reverses the effect (Deal full damage
        > to allies and heal enemies for half damage).

<span id="anchor-135"></span>-Death Pact:

Tags: \[Mana Regen\] \[Mana Drain\] \[Healing\] \[Copy\]

Notes: My version truly was a death pact, where both parties lost their
lives.

Casting by AI: Doesn’t work.

RawCode: AUdp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The same as “Dark Ritual” except it has another order string. Go up
    3 abilities for more information.

<span id="anchor-136"></span>-Frost Armor:

Tags: \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: used first on units that takes damage from enemy, and can
to follow to whole group if necessary (Daffa)

RawCode: AUfu AUfa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Armor Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values remove armor instead.

  - “Data - Armor Duration”
    
      - > Negative values causes it to last seemingly forever. 

  - Frost armor from lich can’t be stolen with spell steal. However,
    frost armor from the neutral can.

<span id="anchor-137"></span>-Frost Nova:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AUfn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Area of Effect damage” and “Data - Specific Target Damage”
    
      - > Negative values causes the unit to heal.

  - “Stats - Buffs”
    
      - > Works as intended, with the visual effect.

  - The Slow is dependant on the gameplay constants “Spells - Frost
    Attack/Movement Speed Reduction”

<span id="anchor-138"></span>-Impale:

Tags: \[Suppressed\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 3 clustered enemy units in cast
range.

RawCode: AUim

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This ability is channeling. Interrupting cast animation prevents
    further spikes from popping up.

  - Technically identical to Cyclone's mechanic - turns target
    invulnerable, removes all attached special effects from it,
    effectively hide the unit. (DracoL1ch)

  - Cannot be applied onto units under Ensnare or similar effect
    (Cyclone's rules). (DracoL1ch)

  - “Data - Air Time”
    
      - > Negative values gets rounded back to 0.
    
      - > Values above 0 does not make the unit fly “slower” through the
        > air, it only changes the invulnerability.
        
          - The stun does not kick into effect until after the
            invulnerability runs out.
          - The unit is stuck in a suppressed state where they cannot do
            anything.

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Negative values cause healing.

  - “Data - Wave Distance”
    
      - > Negative values causes the spikes to go in the opposite
        > direction

  - “Data - Wave Time”
    
      - > Negative values makes no spikes appear.

  - Units stunned by Impale are Immune to Impale

<span id="anchor-139"></span>-Inferno:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Healing\]

Notes: My beautiful inferno skill, summoning a frog and dealing 1000
healing. Truly Majestic\!

RawCode: AUin ANin SNin

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage”
    
      - > At negative values it does heal.

  - “Data - Duration”
    
      - > At negative values it appears to last forever.
    
      - > Setting this field to a smaller value than Impact Delay causes
        > the spell to not stun or deal any damage

  - “Data - Impact Delay”
    
      - > Higher values does not make the meteor come down slower. It
        > only makes it so that the spawning takes longer for the
        > infernal.

  - It adheres to “Targets Allowed” allowing for heals targeted for your
    team.

  - “Stats - Duration”
    
      - > Actually dictates the stun duration.

  - Empty summon slots cause nothing to be summoned.

  - Appears to remove “Locust” ability from summoned unit (at least in
    1.31)

<span id="anchor-140"></span>-Locust Swarm:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AUls

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Always causes the caster to enter Alternate state and removes it
    when ability ends. (DracoL1ch)

  - “Data - Damage Return Factor”
    
      - > Negative values does not damage the Crypt Lord.

  - “Data - Damage Return Threshold”
    
      - > Setting this value to zero or less causes the locusts to float
        > in place behind the unit and do nothing.

  - “Data - Max Swarm Units Per Target”
    
      - > At negative values (or 0) they just won't target anyone and
        > fly around aimlessly.

  - “Data - Number of Swarm Units”
    
      - > There appears to be a hard coded upper limit.

  - “Data - Swarm Unit Type”
    
      - > Here’s an interesting fact. Units that do not have the
        > “Locust” ability will be summoned normally and will
        > function like a normal unit.
    
      - > If the unit does not have any attacks (i.e. Shade) they won’t
        > attack and will just fly around.

  - “Stats - Area of Effect”
    
      - > This thing dictates how far away the locust can fly from the
        > Crypt Lord. Can really be used for some A E S T H E T I C S.

  - Casting the spell with locusts remaining alive (requires ability
    cooldown set shorter than Duration - Normal field value) destroys
    all active locusts and spawns new ones at the position of the
    casting unit. This does not trigger a “unit dies” event for the
    locust units that are destroyed.

<span id="anchor-141"></span>-Sleep:

Tags: \[Suppressed\]

Notes: Add Stun Duration, add friendly targeting…Add “Freezing breath”
buff...remove “stats - duration” and voila\! You have a supportive
stasis spell\!

Casting by AI: Cast while in combat, seems to prefer non heroes.

RawCode: AUsl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Stun Duration”
    
      - > This is the stun duration of which the unit is Invulnerable.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed”.

<span id="anchor-142"></span>

<span id="anchor-143"></span>

<span id="anchor-144"></span>**-Spiked Carapace:**

Tags: \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Percent Damage
Taken Decrease\] \[Percent Damage Taken Increase\]

Notes: Damage Factor and Returned Damage Factor only works against melee
enemies.

RawCode: AUts

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - > Defense bonus changes flat bonus armor, works as intended with
    > both negative/positive values.

  - > Multiple abilities stack independently and fully. (DracoL1ch)

  - > Received Damage Factor changes how much damage is received (It's
    > calculated after armor.)  
    > • Reducing received damage does not equal to the attacker
    > receiving less damage upon damage return. (StormKnight)
    
      - Does nothing below 0.0, just makes the damage 0 and does not
        heal the unit.
      - Above 1.0 the unit takes increased damage instead(still
        calculated after armor).

<!-- end list -->

  - > Returned Damage Factor changes how much damage is returned to the
    > enemy
    
      - Below 0.0 it does not heal the attacker, only nullifies damage.
      -                                                   \*    Above
        1.0 the enemy takes more damage than you. This damage does not
        stack with Received Damage Factor damage.  
          
          
        **-Unholy Aura:**  

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]
\[Movespeed Increase\] \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: If you remove “Self” and replace “Friend” with “Enemy” and then
make it slow/drain life, you have actually made arthas from HotS.

RawCode: AUau

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - “Data - Life Regeneration Increase”
    
      - > Negative values cause units to take damage instead.

  - “Data - Movement Speed increase”
    
      - > Negative values cause the unit to be slowed.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed”.

  - “Data - Percent Bonus”

  - If you set this to True, you can create an aura that gives a certain
    percentage of Movement Speed and/or Max HP % Regen / Sec
    (emperor\_d3st)

<span id="anchor-145"></span>-Vampiric Aura:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AUav

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack Damage Stolen”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage similar to Thorns Aura.

  - Hardcoded to only work on melee units.

<span id="anchor-146"></span>@Night Elf:

<span id="anchor-147"></span>-Abolish Magic:

Tags: \[Mana Regen\] \[Mana Drain\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aadm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Summoned unit damage”
    
      - > Negative values do not heal.

  - “Data - Mana Loss”
    
      - > Negative values cause the target to gain mana.

<span id="anchor-148"></span>-Bear Form:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Abrf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - While transforming, unit cannot be hexed or cycloned. (DracoL1ch)
  - While transforming, unit CAN be silenced, which effectively cancels
    morph time and allows to act immediately in the new form.
    (DracoL1ch)
  - If morph has channeling time, killing the caster while he is
    backmorphing will cause him to become permanently stunned (obviously
    affects heroes only). (DracoL1ch)
  - Using triggers to add and then immediately remove the ability, one
    can cause an instant transformation. This does have some strange
    side effects however, such as when this trick is performed, a spell
    targeting a point loses its X & Y coordinates. Save the point in a
    variable before transforming.
  - In order to make the transformation happen, one must change “Normal
    Form Unit” to the desired new form, and have “Alternate Form Unit”
    be the original form in which you start as.  
    Credit goes to
    [Lordshinjo](https://www.hiveworkshop.com/members/lordshinjo.184886/)
    for posting about this initially on the Hive forums ([link to
    post)](https://www.hiveworkshop.com/threads/hero-passive-transformation.198482/)

<span id="anchor-149"></span>-Corrosive Breath:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Acor

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values do not appear to cause healing.
    
      - > It appears it’s hard coded to only work against structures.

<span id="anchor-150"></span>-Cyclone:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Acyc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Turns target invulnerable, removes all attached special effects from
    it, effectively hide the unit. (DracoL1ch)
    
      - > It also hides the unit if you use any other model in the
        > Cyclone and Cyclone (extra) other than the default Cyclone
        > Model (RoyGBV)
    
      - > By default it uses the “Sprite First Ref” attachment point to
        > decide where on the parent model the model will be attached.

  - If gameplay constant "Cyclone hides unit" toggled, unit will be
    hidden completely instead of using Tornado fx. (DracoL1ch)

  - Cannot be applied onto units under Ensnare, Entangle or similar
    effect. (DracoL1ch)

  - Cannot be applied onto flying units. (DracoL1ch)

  - <span id="anchor-151"></span>Cycloned Units perform the stun order

<span id="anchor-152"></span>-Detonate:

Tags: \[Mana Drain\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Adtn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage to Summoned Units”
    
      - > Negative values do not heal.

  - “Data - Mana Loss”
    
      - > Negative values cause mana gain.

  - Kills the unit, very good.

<span id="anchor-153"></span>-Dismount:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Adec

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-154"></span>-Eat Tree:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Infamous dota technique passed down through generations.

RawCode: Aeat

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Spell stops working if you do the following: eat tree \> cancel
    order and move close to target tree \> eat tree (same tree). It’s
    now impossible to eat that tree until you move roughly 90 units
    away. It might seem like a bug, but it’s probably a melee mechanic
    so that you can block Ancients from eating trees. (Nudl)

  - “Data - Hit Points Gained”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage instead.

  - “Data - Rip Delay”
    
      - > Negative values treated as 0.
    
      - > The amount of time it takes before the tree is removed from
        > the map.

  - Setting targets to include units causes the caster to use the
    ability when right-clicking valid targets (Kino, any version before
    1.32)
    
      - > Does not kill target unit
    
      - > Good base for a dummy ‘interact/conversation’ ability

<span id="anchor-155"></span>

<span id="anchor-156"></span>-Elune’s Grace:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Decrease\] \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent
Damage Taken Increase\] \[Percent Damage Taken Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aegr

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - "Art - Caster" is displayed when this elune's grace affects taken
    damage

  - “Data - Chance to Deflect”
    
      - > Requires the Gameplay constant DefendDeflection = 1
    
      - > 0 to 100, with 100 deflecting every affected Attack 
    
      - > Deflects any ranged attack that is (Pierce, Magic or Spell),
        > but not missiles from Abilities (Barrage)
    
      - > Deflected attacks apply Buff placers onto the source of the
        > attack
    
      - > The bounce/ deal aoe /line damage from the Attacker
    
      - > Seemingly doesn’t work on the first time the unit is attacked,
        > even with 100.0 chance. (KitsuneTailsPrower)
    
      - > Plays Art - Caster effect when deflecting.
        > (KitsuneTailsPrower)

> 

  - “Data - Deflect Damage Taken (Piercing)”
    
      - > Multiplies the taken damage when an (Piercing) Attack is
        > deflected
    
      - > Stacks with “Data - Damage Taken”, 0.8 and 0.9 = 0.72
    
      - > Won’t deflect with a Value equal to 1.0 
    
      - > Values below 0 cause no damage.
    
      - > Values above 1 cause more damage.

  - “Data - Deflect Damage Taken (Spells)”
    
      - > “Data - Deflect Damage Taken (Piercing)” against Magic & Spell
        > Attacks
    
      - > Does not affect Spellcasts 

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Values below 0 cause no damage.
    
      - > Values above 1 cause more damage.
    
      - > Affects own AutoAttack, regardless of attacktype.
    
      - > Stacks with other Elune Graces. 20 x 5 x 10 = 1000
    
      - > Affects the current attack when added by triggers in an unit
        > is attacked event.
    
      - > Does not show up on the UI, unless the unit also has Trueshot
        > Aura buff active on them (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Damage Taken”
    
      - > Values below 0 cause no damage to be taken.
    
      - > Only adds defense versus Piercing. (Prometheus3375)
    
      - > In case of multiple Elune’s Grace abilities the lowest value
        > seems to apply (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Magic Damage Reduction”
    
      - > Values below 0 cause the unit to be healed instead when it
        > would receive Spell dmg. (emperor\_d3st)
    
      - > Only adds defense versus Spells and Magic Attacks
        > (Priest/Shaman...).
    
      - > In case of multiple Elune’s Grace abilities the lowest value
        > seems to apply (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Attack Speed Factor” & “Data - Movement Speed Factor” appear
    to both be deprecated (no change in movement speed/attack rate with
    either positive or negative values) (Khyrberos, 1.36) 

<span id="anchor-157"></span>-Entangle Gold Mine:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aent

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-158"></span>-Entangled Gold Mine Ability:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aegm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Units with this ability are created with a special minimap icon and
    will keep it even if they lose the ability or morph. The icon can be
    accessed from game interface and is player colored unlike something
    like a neutral building icon.

<span id="anchor-159"></span>-Ethereal:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Has the epic ToolTipMissing Icon

RawCode: Aetl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Disallow to cast several physical-only abilities and Channel which
    has "Physical" option's flag enabled. (DracoL1ch)
    
      - > Physical-only example: Ensnare, Suicide.

  - Doesn't disjoint any projectiles, physical ones will not deal it's
    effect on impact. (DracoL1ch)

<span id="anchor-160"></span>-Faerie Fire:

Tags: \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] 

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed randomly on enemy units.

RawCode: Afae

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Defense Reduction”
    
      - > Acts as expected both with both positive and negative values.

  - Doesn't stack with itself, latest placed overrides the buff, but
    effect may become incorrect (takes bigger armor bonus always).

  - Shares unit's vision with the caster's owner.

  - Render unit visible when he is invisible.

  - (nchp1903) Faerie Fire Is a good base for triggered autocast
    abilities, because it will automatically cast on viable targets in
    range, even if Duration is set to 0.01 and Defense Reduction to 0.
    
      - > Another good contender is Curse, but A.I will only autocast
        > Curse on targets that can attack.

<span id="anchor-161"></span>-Hardened Skin:

Tags: \[Flat Damage Taken Decrease\] \[Flat Damage Taken Increase\]

Notes: ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

RawCode: Assk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - When multiple abilities based on this obtained, they're being
    evaluated in reverse order of obtaining (latest triggers first). As
    soon as any of those pass through the “Chance to Reduce Damage”, all
    other blocks are completely ignored.

  - “Data - Ignored damage”
    
      - > Negative values causes the unit to take this amount of extra
        > damage every hit.

  - “Data - Minimum damage”
    
      - > Negative values are treated as 0.
    
      - > A value of 0 allows for the unit to not take any damage if the
        > ignored damage is reduced to equal or below 0.
    
      - > Damage instances smaller than the minimum damage may get
        > bumped up to the minimum. Needs more testing.

  - “Stats - Cooldown” and “Stats - Mana Cost” fields nonfunctional.

  - Plays Art - Caster effect when blocking damage (Somen00b)

<span id="anchor-162"></span>-Lightning Attack:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Aesthetics

RawCode: Alit

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Visual effect overrides most of other on-attack effects, like
    Vampiric. (DracoL1ch)
  - Visual effect becomes broken if Critical strike or Bash happens on
    the same attack. (DracoL1ch)
  - Lightning Attack can change projectile fields and add a
    beam/lightning type to the attack of a unit while in-game even.
    (Wonder Wiz)

<span id="anchor-163"></span>-Mana Flare:

Tags: \[Mana Drain\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Amfl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Cooldown”
    
      - > This is actually the armor modifier, adds armor or removes it.

  - “Data - Damage per Mana point”
    
      - > Negative values do not cause mana regeneration.

<span id="anchor-164"></span>-Moon Glaive:

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Doesn't do anything, it’s all handled by the Upgrade

RawCode: Amgl Amgr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - 

<span id="anchor-165"></span>-Mount Hippogryph:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aco2

Latest tested version: 1.32.7

  -  Removes buffs and effects from the unit, same as dismount.

<span id="anchor-166"></span>-Phase Shift:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: I think the Data fields are deprecated

RawCode: Apsh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Works just fine on Heroes (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401)
  - Phase Shift works by ‘hiding’ the Shifting unit… But they are
    technically just invisible, so this ability can be ‘countered’ with
    detection (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401)
  - Seems like the Data fields (“Data - Attack Speed Reduction (%)” &
    “Data - Movement Speed Reduction (%)”) are indeed deprecated (no
    apparent effect) (Khyrberos, 1.26.0.6401)
  - “Art-Special” plays at the beginning (when the ability is initially
    activated), while the “Art-Special” of the Buff assigned to it plays
    at the \*end\* (when the unit ‘phases back in’) (Khyrberos,
    1.26.0.6401) 
  - Stats - Duration 0 does not cause the unity to shift infinitely.

<span id="anchor-167"></span>-Pick Up Archer:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aco3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-168"></span>-Rejuvenation:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing\] \[Mana
Drain\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Used when caster or any nearby allies take
significant/any/moderate damage.

RawCode: Arej

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data Hit/Mana Points Gained”
    
      - > Negative values causes loss in said value.
    
      - > Setting both hit/mana value to 0 causes the ability to not be
        > castable on anything.
    
      - > AI will not heal a unit below a certain percentage of the hit
        > point gained (still need more testing for exact values)

  - Stats - Duration 0 does not cause it to last indefinitely.

<span id="anchor-169"></span>-Replenish Mana and Life:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Ambt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data Hit/Mana Points Gained”
    
      - > 0 or negative values causes it to stop working entirely.

  - Replenish mana special effect is hardcoded into the spell. (Nudl)

  - Can be used to make a mana based copy of Priest’s Healing ability by
    setting Mana Gained to -1, Water Height -1 and triggering so that
    target is given mana. (Nudl)

<span id="anchor-170"></span>-Resistant Skin:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Arsk ACrk ACsk

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Practically a hardcoded Tenacity.
  - Reduce durations of spells to the “hero” duration. 
  - Also makes it so the unit cannot be targeted by spells that cannot
    target heroes. Does not make the unit targetable by spells that can
    ONLY target heroes. (SonGuhun)

<span id="anchor-171"></span>-Roar:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\] \[Flat
Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing
Over Time\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Rawr XD

Casting by AI: Used when engaging enemies.

RawCode: Aroa Ara2 ACr1 ACro

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage/Defense Increase”
    
      - > Negative values causes loss in damage/armor

  - “Data - Life/mana Regen”
    
      - > Negative values causes loss in life/mana.

  - Adheres to Targets Allowed.

  - AI Usage: Refuses to cast it if it’s damage increase (%) is 0.
    (Uyarrr)

<span id="anchor-172"></span>-Root:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Uprooted structures can have a flying height (if their movement
    speed is 0, you must redraw their model using SetUnitPosition in
    another frame). (SonGuhun)
  - Having this on a structure will cause them to “turn” to attack
    enemies if they have proper movement types, movement speed and turn
    rates.
  - Uprooted structures have most of their abilities negated until they
    root again. Eat Tree follows the rule in reverse (negated until you
    uproot,) and custom abilities based on Eat Tree are not negated at
    all. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-173"></span>-Sentinel:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aesn Aesr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Number of Owls”
    
      - > Negative values causes it to count up by -1 every time it’s
        > cast
    
      - > 0 causes unlimited uses.

  - Can only target trees; good for single-tree-targeting spells.

<span id="anchor-174"></span>-Shadow Meld:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Ashm Sshm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - You become invisible
  - The “Akama” version makes the unit stop auto acquiring enemies.

<span id="anchor-175"></span>-Slow Poison:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aspo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack/movement speed factor”
    
      - > Negative values causes unit to speed up instead.

  - “Data - Damage per second”
    
      - > Negative values gets rounded back to positive, causing damage.

  - “Data - Stacking Type”
    
      - > See “Envenomed Spears” for more information.

<span id="anchor-176"></span>-Spell Immunity:

Tags: \[Magic Immunity\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Amim ACmi ACm2 ACm3 AImx

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Magic Immunity can be bypassed by converting an ability to an
    ultimate (assuming the *Gameplay - Magic Immunes Resist Ultimates
    *constant is set to *False*. This can be done by converting an
    ability to a Hero ability and setting the field *Stats - Required
    Level *to *6*. After setting the field, the ability can once again
    be made a non-hero ability. (SonGuhun)

  - “Data - Magic Damage Factor”
    
      - > Flat dmg block vs AttackTypeMagic (requires Game constant
        > MagicImmunesResistDamage=0)
    
      - > Anything above 0 reduces taken dmg.
    
      - > Anything below 0 increases taken dmg. Stacks 100Atk - (30Block
        > + 60Block) = 10
    
      - > Changes dmg before armor does

**-Spirit of Vengeance:**

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Avng

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of “Carrion Beetles” except non heroic. A summon which requires
    a nearby corpse.

<span id="anchor-177"></span>-Storm Crow Form:

Tags: \[Morph\] \[Unique\]

Notes: Null 

RawCode: Arav

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Adding this ability to a unit will make it possible to change the
    elevation of the unit even if the unit cannot “fly”.
    
      - > The unit does not need to have the ability, it only needs to
        > have had it. AKA you can add/remove it using triggers, and
        > things will still work.

<span id="anchor-178"></span>-Taunt:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: The one thing i’m good at doing against other players.

RawCode: Atau

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Does not lock them to attacking the unit, so a player with good
    micro can easily just ignore it.

  - Upon casting, it issues a single attack order to 10 randomly chosen
    closest enemy units in an AOE.
    
      - > “Data - Prefer Hostiles”, which houses the number of units to
        > be chosen, is hard-coded to be at 10.
        
          - Cannot input a number greater than 1.
    
      - > “Data - Cast Range” and “Data - Duration” fields do nothing.
        > (RoyGBV)

  - Units require movement speed above 0 for this ability to function.
    (Nudl)

<span id="anchor-179"></span>-Ultravision:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Ault AIuv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Hard-coded to set the units “Night vision” to the unit’s “Day
    vision”.

<span id="anchor-180"></span>-Vorpal Blades:

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aimp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Does nothing, this is handled by the upgrade itself.

<span id="anchor-181"></span>-War Club:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Agra

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Allows for changing the allowed attacks for a unit, but only by
    consuming a tree.
  - Changing targets to enable unit targeting causes the game to crash
    on cast (Kino, 1.30++)

<span id="anchor-182"></span>-Blink;

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEbl ANbl AIbk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Teleport short distance, Also known as “Flash” by ignorant league
    players
  - Using Blink will disjoint most homing missiles currently homing onto
    the blinking unit.
  - Can’t be used into unexplored areas, there’s a fairly complicated
    set of rules for this.
  - Duration - Normal works like Channel’s “Follow Through Time”

<span id="anchor-183"></span>-Entangling Roots:

Tags: \[Damage Per Second\] \[Suppress\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEer Aenr Aenw

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Can’t use change air height of target unit, avoid using against air
    units or “air” type spells. (Nudl)

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values just causes the unit to take more damage than
        > it’s supposed to.

<span id="anchor-184"></span>-Evasion:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEev

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - When unit has multiple Evasion-based abilities, only the one with
    highest chance takes effect (used for calculations).

  - Plays "Caster art" effect whenever evasion happens. (DracoL1ch)

  - “Data - Chance to Evade”
    
      - > Negative values does nothing.
    
      - > Values above 1 counts as 1.

<span id="anchor-185"></span>-Fan of Knives:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spams randomly if 2 to 3 enemies around, occasionally
also uses on single targets if attacked.

RawCode: AEfk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Per Target”
    
      - > Negative values causes healing.

  - Does not damage ethereal units

  - Does not use cast point, the effect happens immediately. The entire
    animation can be freely canceled.

<span id="anchor-186"></span>-Force of Nature:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Forces innocent trees to fight for you, screw the trees.

RawCode: AEfn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Don’t set the area of effect to 999999

<span id="anchor-187"></span>-Immolation:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Healing\] \[Mana
Drain\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Activates only if Immolation deals damage and there are
viable targets present; it may favor use after losing hitpoints.

RawCode: AEim

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage per Interval”
    
      - > Negative values cause negative damage.

  - “Data - Mana drained per second”
    
      - > Negative values cause mana regen instead.

  - “Stats - Duration”
    
      - > Dictates the interval between the triggering ticks.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed”.

<span id="anchor-188"></span>-Mana Burn:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Mana Drain\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed on anything with mana.

RawCode: AEmb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Max Mana Drained”
    
      - > Negative values cause the unit to both heal and get mana back.

<span id="anchor-189"></span>-Metamorphosis:

Tags: \[Morph\] \[Flat Health Decrease\] \[Flat Health Increase\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEme

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Alternate Form Hit Point Bonus”
    
      - > See “Avatar” (not the movie, the ability).

  - Stats - Duration - Normal
    
      - > This actually dictates how long it takes for the unit to
        > transform into the other unit (and possibly back).

<span id="anchor-190"></span>-Scout:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEst

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s a flat out summon
  - Last according to duration.

<span id="anchor-191"></span>-Searing Arrows:

Tags: \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Boring really

Casting by AI: Uses it whenever the CD is off.

RawCode: AHfa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage bonus”
    
      - > Negative values causes it to subtract from the total damage
        > dealt.

  - It is possible to allow “self” as a target, causing the unit to
    attack itself.

  - Using it manually will not draw aggro, use search engine for “orb
    walking” for more info.

  - If the range of this ability is higher than the caster’s attack
    range, you can still manually cast it on a target outside of the
    normal attack range… but the attack will always register as a miss.
    (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-192"></span>-Shadow Strike:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]
\[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\]
\[Movespeed Decrease\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down unless victim is already
afflicted with Shadow Strike (may prefer target that has less than 100%
of his health. Never studied to determine the threshold, but a user has
never seen it used on a 100% target)

RawCode: AEsh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack/Movement Speed factor”
    
      - > Negative values cause it to increase instead.

  - “Data - Decaying damage” and “Data - Initial Damage”
    
      - > Negative values cause healing.

  - “Data - Decaying Power”
    
      - >  has to have the same sign as the slow.
    
      - > \+Slow and +Decaying Power -\> slowed also regain over time.
    
      - > \-Speed and -Decaying Power -\> speed up speedUp increases
        > over time. (I encountered a bug where the units speed dropped
        > to its minimum after the spell ended)

  - Tick Rate is determined by the Casting Time field

  - Adheres to Targets Allowed.

<span id="anchor-193"></span>-Starfall:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Uses when there is 2 or more enemy units close.

RawCode: AEsf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Negative values causes healing.

<span id="anchor-194"></span>-Thorns Aura:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEah

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - “Data - Damage is Percent Received”
    
      - > Possible to choose between flat and % damage. (emperor\_d3st)

  - Flat damage set to 0.000 still seems to do 1 damage to attackers, at
    least when set with the Field functions. (emperor\_d3st)

  - Reflect damage is considered either Spell or Magic damage, and is
    influenced by magic damage reduction abilities. If the enemy has
    negative magic damage taken, Reflect will heal them. (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Damage Dealt to Attackers”
    
      - > Negative values do not cause healing.
    
      - > 

<span id="anchor-195"></span>-Tranquility:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]
\[Stackable\] \[Buff Stackable\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEtq

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Life Healed”
    
      - > Negative values causes damage instead.

  - If another buff or a custom buff is used it stacks with itself.
    (Khyrberos)
    
      - > If 2 tranquilities with different healing are cast at once,
        > it’s gonna apply the effects of the first tranquility being
        > cast.
        
          - If the first tranquility is canceled but the second if still
            going it’s still gonna apply the effects of the first
            Tranquility instead of switching to the second Tranquility.

<span id="anchor-196"></span>-Trueshot Aura:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\] \[Percent Damage Increase\]
\[Percent Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEar

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values causes all ranged units to lose damage
        > instead.

  - Adheres to Targets Allowed

<span id="anchor-197"></span>-Vengeance:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEsv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It summons shit that summons more shit.

<span id="anchor-198"></span>@Neutral Hostile:

<span id="anchor-199"></span>-Monsoon:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACmo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Acts like Starfall.
  - Instead of being channeled on the caster it’s instead channeled
    where the ability is targeted.

**-Breath of Frost:**

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Damage Over Time\] \[Healing Over Time??\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACbf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Is similar to Pandaren Brewmaster’s “Breath of Fire”, except it has
    a field for/applies a Damage Over Time\! (Khyrberos)
  - Comes with its own buff, icon, & SFX. (Khyrberos)
  - Unlike Breath of Fire, this does not need the Drunken Haze buff to
    deal DPS to enemies.

<span id="anchor-200"></span>-Charge Gold and Lumber:

Internal ID: \[AAns\]

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\]

Notes: Very similar to just buying an item.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Charge Owning Player”
    
      - > If set to true the player that owns the unit is the one
        > paying.
    
      - > If set to false the player that presses the ability is the one
        > paying.

  - “Data - Gold/Lumber cost”
    
      - > Negative values cause you to gain resources instead.
    
      - > If you set 1 value to negative and 1 to positive you can use
        > it to convert gold to lumber or vice versa, it will fail if
        > you lack the appropriate amount of the resource with the
        > positive value (KitsuneTailsPrower)

  - “Data - Base Order ID”
    
      - > This is the Order ID, it’s assumed it’s the order string (for
        > triggers and the command grid)
    
      - > If you change this to different Order ID’s the ability stack.

  - This ability interrupts current orders sadly.

  - This ability ignores Techtree Requirements.

  - This ability ignores cooldown. (PauloHPBender)

  - This ability can’t be disabled by triggers of any kind.
    (PauloHPBender)

<span id="anchor-201"></span>-Cold Arrows:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]
\[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AHca

Casting by AI: Has priority over Searing Arrows in the case the
hero/unit has both spells.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Very similar to Venomous Spears.
  - Flat damage boost instead of DOT
  - It is possible to allow “self” as a target, causing the unit to
    attack itself.

<span id="anchor-202"></span>-Command Aura:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\] \[Percent Damage Increase\]
\[Percent Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACac

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s exactly like War Drums, with its own icon and buff.
  - It stacks with War Drums.

<span id="anchor-203"></span>-Finger of Death:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Afod

Casting by AI: Tendency to target furthest away, but still within range.
Used whenever off cooldown.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage”
    
      - > Negative values cause healing.

  - Killing things with finger of death causes them to explode.

<span id="anchor-204"></span>-Firebolt / -Frost Bolt:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACfb ACcb Awfb(orc warlock)

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down, has preference to target
heroes.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s actually Storm Bolt.
  - It has a separate order string from normal Thunderbolt. You can give
    a unit both Firebolt and Storm Bolt, and they won’t mess each other
    up. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-205"></span>-Frenzy:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Afzy

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s a self cast version of Bloodlust.
  - Stacks with Bloodlust (?) (Yes, Confirmed) (Rairus)
  - Does not apply size changes (“Scaling Value” field deprecated. Very
    sad.) (Khyrberos)

<span id="anchor-206"></span>-Hurl Boulder:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACtb

Casting by AI: Spammed at every cool down, has preference to target
heroes.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s actually Storm Bolt.
  - It has a separate order string from normal Storm Bolt.

<span id="anchor-207"></span>-Kaboom\!:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Asds Asdg Asd2 Asd3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Explodes on Death”
    
      - > If set to true, then the caster explodes on death as if it was
        > killed by finger of death.

  - “Data - Damage Amount”
    
      - > Negative values does not cause healing

<span id="anchor-208"></span>-Life Regeneration Aura:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACnr

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - Unlike most auras this does not put a buff on the buff UI
    (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Percentage”
    
      - > When set to True it will heal a percentage of the unit’s max
        > HP instead. A value of 0.01 is 1% healed per second.
        > (emperor\_d3st)

  - “Data - Amount of Hit Points”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage.
    
      - > If the unit has full health it won’t start taking damage until
        > it’s decreased.

<span id="anchor-209"></span>-Life Steal:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: SCva

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - “Data - Life Stolen Per Attack”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage instead.

<span id="anchor-210"></span>-Mind Rot:

Tags: \[Mana Drain\] \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Should have an anime picture as its icon

RawCode: ANmr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Mana Drained per Second”
    
      - > Negative values causes the target to regenerate mana instead.

  - The Buff is lost when the unit's Mana drops to 0.1 or lower.

  - 

<span id="anchor-211"></span>-Mana Regeneration: (emperor\_d3st)

Tags: \[Mana Regen\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANre

Latest tested version: 1.36

  - Unlike most auras this does not put a buff on the buff UI

  - “Data - Percentage”
    
      - > When set to True it will heal a percentage of the unit’s max
        > Mana instead. A value of 0.01 is 1% recovered per second.

  - “Data - Amount Regenerated”
    
      - > Negative values cause unit to start losing mana instead.

<span id="anchor-212"></span>-Parasite:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Damage Over time\] \[Attackspeed Increase\]
\[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] 

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANpa ACpa(eredar)

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Functions like a unit-, autocastable- version of “Doom”.

  - Like Doom, the debuff cannot be dispelled.

  - However, unlike Doom, this does not silence the target enemy unit,
    nor forbid it to use items.

  - Creates a unit when a unit dies.
    
      - > The summoner of the unit appears as the unit whom die (In
        > triggers).

<span id="anchor-213"></span>-Quill Spray:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANak

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Basically a copy of the Undead Destroyer's “Orb of Annihilation”.

<span id="anchor-214"></span>-Ray of Disruption:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Ache

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Summoned Unit Damage”
    
      - > Negative values does not heal.

  - Adheres to “Targets Allowed

<span id="anchor-215"></span>-Reveal:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Andt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Gold/lumber cost”
    
      - > Negative values causes resource gain.

  - Otherwise it functions like “Far Sight” except it won’t interrupt
    orders. (Wonder Wiz)

  - Triggers don’t notice this spell being cast. You can however detect
    it by catching the order, as the effect is instant.

<span id="anchor-216"></span>-Sleep Always:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Asla

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Allow On Any Player Slot”
    
      - > Not only for neutral players.

  - “Data - Sleep Once”
    
      - > If false the unit will go back to sleep after getting out of
        > combat.
    
      - > If true the unit will not go back to sleep.

<span id="anchor-217"></span>-Spawn Hydra:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aspy Aspt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Spawns units upon death.
  - Counts as summoned units, and thus takes extra damage from dispel
    abilities.
  - Spawned units spawn with no abilities regardless of what they have
    in the Object Editor.(Not the case in 1.31.)
  - Stat - Buff works similarly to that of other summon abilities.
    Duration - Normal is used to determine the Timed Life of the
    summoned units.

<span id="anchor-218"></span>-Spy:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Deprecated

<span id="anchor-219"></span>-Submerge:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Asb1 Asb2 Asb3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s “Burrow” but only works on water.

<span id="anchor-220"></span>-Acid Bomb:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANab

Casting by AI: Used on clusters of enemies.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Applies Attack Speed/Move Speed penalties on a target and nearby
    targets.
    
      - > Attack speed and Move speed are actually bonuses, positive
        > values cause them to gain speed. (Uyarrr)

  - Applies armor buff / debuff to target.
    
      - > Positive values remove armor.
    
      - > Negative values add armor

  - Applies Damage Over Time to the same targets.

  - You would think it’s dispellable, but it’s not.

  - Does not appear to stack with itself using separate buffs contrary
    to rumors. (Unless there is some other way, provide clear
    instructions.)

  - If you set the Area of Effect to 0 it will still hit the primary
    target. (KitsuneTailsPrower)

<span id="anchor-221"></span>-Attribute Bonus:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aamk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Negative values to the bonuses cause the hero to lose attributes
    instead.
  - Ignores Techtree Dependencies (PauloHPBender)

<span id="anchor-222"></span>-Battle Roar:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Unused\] \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage
Decrease\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Healing
Over Time\]

Notes: Judging by the 4 levels it was very likely intended for the
rexxar campaign.

RawCode: ANbr

Casting by AI: Used when engaging enemies.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s a copy of Roar, except it has a separate order string and buff.
  - Stacks with “Roar”
  - Unlike roar, it provides a flat damage increase.

<span id="anchor-223"></span>-Black Arrow:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Flat Damage Increase\]

Notes: Null

Casting by AI: Used when the target is dying.

RawCode: ANba ACbk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values does not cause healing.

  - It is possible to allow “self” as a target, causing the unit to
    attack itself.

  - Putting this on a melee unit gives it the ability to place the Black
    Arrow buff on enemies even without having to toggle on (\_dtnmang\_)

<span id="anchor-224"></span>-Breath of Fire:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANbf ANcf ACbc

Casting by AI: Triggered by having 3 clustered enemy units in cast
range. (Nudl)

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage.

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values do not cause healing.

  - If the unit is affected by drunken Haze it deals bonus damage.

  - If you want the bonus damage per second to not require Drunken Haze
    buff, use the Breath of Frost instead.

<span id="anchor-225"></span>-Channel:

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\] \[Stackable\] \[Buff Stackable\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANcl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Considered the ultimate modding / trigger ability.
  - Has a variety of “targeting” modes, also has the ability to change
    the GUI strings. Making it stack with itself.
  - Abilities can be marked as "Hidden" to prevent them showing up, but
    they will still be there and can be called by triggers.
  - Use different order strings for multiple Channel-based abilities to
    prevent conflicts.
  - By default has no actual effect except uses user’s mana and causes
    them to channel one specific animation for a follow through time
    duration (Daffa)
  - When Channel is configured to target units, you can still target
    destructibles with it, but the Follow Through Time will be ignored
    and the casting unit’s cast backswing time will be referenced
    instead.

<span id="anchor-226"></span>-Charm:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANch

Casting by AI: Spammed on anything that can be targeted; will not target
things that can't attack (Though may target workers making buildings
that attack)

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Take over targeted unit.
  - Maximum creep level at or below 0 causes it to ignore level.
  - Has maximum level data field. (Nudl)
  - Adheres to targets allowed, allowing for stealing of heroes.
  - If allowed to target heroes, using Charm on enemy Heroes causes
    their interface icon to disappear on the enemy player’s side and
    instead transfer it to your side.
  - Charmed heroes act like normal heroes, and their interface icons
    cannot be removed.
  - Maximum creep level is only adhered to by units under ‘Neutral
    Hostile’ unit group. (Daffa)
  - Other notes: (RoyGBV)

<!-- end list -->

  - > Using Charm on summoned units with an expiration timer does not
    > alter it.

  - > Charmed units do use food values (except on summoned units), and
    > can exceed over your current food limits, meaning that you don’t
    > need to “Build more Farms” to use Charm.

<!-- end list -->

  - > Casting it on player-owned units does not inherit upgrades.

  - > However, if you used Charm on a worker unit, and used it to build
    > structures that do research upgrades, then units that you Charmed
    > on will have abilities or upgraded damage/armor based on your
    > upgrades researched, as if you trained those units yourself.

  - > This means that technically (and is possible in-game with a ton of
    > resource management), you can have control over all the other 3
    > races. 

<span id="anchor-227"></span>-Chemical Rage:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANcr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Contrary to all the stats showing up, the bonuses are actually
    inside the morphed alchemist.

(It literally says “Info Panel Only” beside the attack and movement
speed bonus fields)

<span id="anchor-228"></span>-Cleaving Attack:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANca ACce

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Distributed Damage Factor” can be set above 1.0, causing
    secondary targets to take more damage than the primary one. This
    does not increase the damage against the primary target in any way.
    (RoyGBV)
  - This cleave ignores armor. (tal0n)
  - The armor ignoring portion is only against secondary targets, the
    primary target still takes reduced damage.
  - The ability stacks with itself in both item and ability form.
    (tal0n)
  - For some reason, if the “Targets Allowed” field of Level 1 is set to
    “None”, other levels will have no targets allowed in-game,
    regardless of what has been set for them (Spacebuns).
  - The AOE is offset by the radius of the AOE in the attacking
    direction.

<span id="anchor-229"></span>-Cluster Rockets:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\] \[AOE Disable\] \[Healing Over Time\]
\[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANcs ANc1 ANc2 ANc3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Amount”
    
      - > Negative values cause healing.

<span id="anchor-230"></span>-Dark Portal:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANdp

Casting by AI: Uses whenever is available.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Spawns a number between Maximum-minimum amount of Units defined. 
  - The units are random from the array.
  - The units are still treated as Summoned, and they don’t cost any
    food. (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-231"></span>-Demolish:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\] 

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANde ANd1 ANd2 ANd3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Multiplier”
    
      - > Negative values do not cause anything to happen.

  - Demolish can critically strike and stacks with itself and any other
    critical strike ability (Wonder Wiz)

  - Adheres to “targets allowed”. (tal0n)

<span id="anchor-232"></span>-Doom:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANdo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes the unit to take damage until it dies.

  - Silences the target, blocking inventory, forbidding to even
    drop/pickup items.

  - Disables most of default passive abilities via "silenced" flag. It
    affects all kinds of Critical strike, Bash, Evasion and some others
    passive (testing required).

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values do not cause healing.

<span id="anchor-233"></span>-Drunken Brawler:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\] \[Flat
Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage Decrease\] \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANdb Acdb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Effectively it’s a copy of both “Critical Strike”, and “Evasion”

<span id="anchor-234"></span>-Drunken Haze:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[AOE Disable\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANdh Acdh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - AOE Curse and AOE buffing/debuffing.

<span id="anchor-235"></span>-Engineering Upgrade:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANeg

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Replaces abilities with abilities.

  - The ability replaced is the first one in the array.

  - The ability they are replaced into is the 2nd one in the array.

  - Cannot be obtained by non-heroes as it instantly causes game to
    crash. (Works on units turned into heroes)
    
      - > No longer crashes in 1.31+

  - Since 1.27a patch and higher leaving "Upgrade" fields empty (for
    instance when buffing less than 4 abillities) may cause crashes when
    there are bear-form abilities on the hero. This bug doesn't exists
    in 1.26 or lower. Could be patched silently in newest patches
    already. (DracoL1ch)

  - "Buff" has nothing to do with effect and it's never ever visible
    ingame.

  - Has a lot of weird side effects.

  - Shared cooldowns on the spellbook stop working (abilities cool down
    on their own) when the spellbook is upgraded with this ability.

  - Unless it’s added through Hero Skill learning, item acquiring or
    trigger effects, this ability ignores Techtree Dependencies. (Paulo
    HP Bender)

<span id="anchor-236"></span>-Forked Lightning:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANfl ACfl

Casting by AI: Spammed on enemy heroes and/or clusters of 2+ enemy
units.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - ”Data - Damage per target”
    
      - > Negative values cause healing instead.

<span id="anchor-237"></span>-Frost Arrows:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]
\[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANfa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Very similar to Venomous Spears.
  - Flat damage boost instead of DOT

<span id="anchor-238"></span>-Healing Spray:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANhs

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of Cluster rockets
  - “Damage amount” has been reversed, having negative numbers will
    cause damage. (Ville Toivonen)
  - If enemies are part of targets allowed, they will be stunned. (Ville
    Toivonen)

<span id="anchor-239"></span>

<span id="anchor-240"></span>-Howl of Terror:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[Percent Damage Increase\] \[Percent Damage Decrease\]
\[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\] \[Damage Over Time\]
\[Healing Over Time\] \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANht Acht

Casting by AI: Used when engaging enemies.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - All fields do the opposite of Roar despite having the same name as
    the Roar fields (i.e. Positive value in “Defence Increase” reduces
    armour)

<span id="anchor-241"></span>-Incinerate:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANia ANic

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - The “Arrow” version is the one in use in melee games.
  - Killing a unit with the incinerate buff causes it to explode and
    leave no corpse (like Finger of Death), and deal damage based on
    what was set in the damage fields.

<span id="anchor-242"></span>-Life Drain:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANdr ACdr

Latest tested version: 1.31

  - Copy of Siphon Mana.

  - (nchp1903) From 1.31 onwards, Life Drain (but not Life Drain
    (Neutral Hostile)) will come with the field “Use Black Arrow
    Effect”:
    
      - > Only applicable to Black Arrows, Black Arrows (Neutral
        > Hostile) and abilities based on them. Doesn’t work on Item
        > Attack Black Arrow Bonus or Item Black Arrow.
    
      - > For every Drain Interval, Life Drain it will apply the buff of
        > the Black Arrow ability to the target as a negative buff.
    
      - > The Duration of the buff depends on the Duration - Normal of
        > Black Arrow. Same with the buff level, type of summoned unit,
        > and summoned unit duration.
    
      - > Even if Black Arrows’ Targets Allowed is set to None, the buff
        > can still be applied. This makes Hidden Black Arrows+Life
        > Drain a good way to make a channeled spell that can also apply
        > a debuff, without too much triggering like Channel.

<span id="anchor-243"></span>-Mana Shield:

Tags: \[Percent Damage Reduction\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANms ACmf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Absorbed”
    
      - > Only works on values between 0-1
    
      - > Dictates how much damage goes through the shield.

  - Armor is ignored when mana shield is on. (Wonder Wiz)

  - Adheres the “Duration - Unit” field as forced duration. (Remixer)

<span id="anchor-244"></span>-Pocket Factory:

Tags: \[Summon\] 

Notes: This ability is perfect for a projectile-based summon unit spell.

RawCode: ANsy ANs1 ANs2 ANs3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Creates units every X amount of seconds.
  - If the “Factory” dies the spawning stops.
  - Spawned units will die if they walk outside the leash range.
  - The Factory unit doesn’t actually summon units, the “Factory”
    ability below does that. (RoyGBV)
  - Try spawning a dummy unit with this ability, then Triggering that
    dummy to cast a spell. 

<span id="anchor-245"></span>-Factory:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[Unique\] \[Unused\]

Notes: Creates units passively similar to the Factory in Pocket Factory
ability.

RawCode: ANfy

Latest tested version: 1.30.1

  - Creates units every X amount of seconds.

  - Spawned units will die, if they walk outside the leash range.

  - Factory units are “selectively un-selectable”; they will be ignored
    in drag selection, if non-factories are in the same drag selection.
    This keeps even after losing that ability again.

  - Dead Factory Units will continue to spawn units until they are
    removed from the game, actively or decayed, or the corpse lost the
    ability.
    
      - > NOTE: Summoned units are removed from the game once their
        > timer expires.

  - Units spawned by the Factory ability which are intended to produce
    Food do \*not\* provide Food (Khyrberos, 1.32.2)

<span id="anchor-246"></span>-Poison Arrows:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AEpa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Deprecated version of the priestess searing arrows.

<span id="anchor-247"></span>-Rain of Chaos:

Tags: \[Summon\] \[AOE Disabling\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANrc ANr3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s “Infernal” except every infernal has its own “crash”.
  - Rain of Chaos has an odd response to summon abilities it’s based on.
    It works well with some and fails with others.
  - Does not work if the summoned unit on the set Inferno ability is
    either Invulnerable, or has the “Locust” ability. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-248"></span>

<span id="anchor-249"></span>-Rain of Fire:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANrf ACrg ACrf

Casting by AI: Will cast if there are at least 2 to 3 units in a group.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Blizzard with another order string.
  - Also causes a tiny DOT

<span id="anchor-250"></span>-Robo-Goblin:

Tags: \[Morph\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANrg ANg1 ANg2 ANg3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Morphs into a unit and provide armor/strength.

  - “Data Strength/Defense Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values cause negative stat bonuses.

<span id="anchor-251"></span>-Silence:

Tags: \[AOE Supportive\] \[AOE Disabling\] 

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANsi ACsi AIse

Casting by AI: Appears to spam on anything that has mana. \[May target
all units if it reduces the damage dealt of those targeted - needs
confirmation.\] Preference for units with at least 75 mana as well as
player units and non-heroes over heroes.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This is like “Cloud” except it’s not a channel.
  - Same notes from the “Data - xxx” field in Cloud apply.

<span id="anchor-252"></span>-Soul Burn:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Movespeed
Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANso

Casting by AI: Has none or only used on heroes, need confirmation.
(Nudl)

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Single target debuff.
  - “Data - Damage Penalty“ is the percentage of damage reduced. (0.0 is
    0%, 1.0 is 100%)
  - “Data - Damage Period” is the amount of time before the next damage
    tick is dealt. (eg: 0.25 causes it to deal 4 damage ticks every
    second)
  - “Data - Attack Speed Reduction” and “Data - Movement Speed
    Reduction” works as expected, as well as setting it to negative
    values. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-253"></span>-Soul Preservation:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANsl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - A spell that can only target specific unit types. (specified by
    unit’s race)
  - Suggestively it removes them simply.
  - Removes the unit from the game, never to come back again 🙁. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-254"></span>-Spirit Beast:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ACs8

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Actually Spirit Wolf.

<span id="anchor-255"></span>-Stampede:

Tags: \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Uther party?

RawCode: ANst Arsp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - It’s a stampede, will heal if damage is set negative.
  - One thing to note is that if you use other default units as the
    missile/projectile, they will just stand idly and not perform their
    walking animation as they travel. This is because the stampede
    lizard’s running animation is labeled as “Stand”. (RoyGBV)
  - This is only for visuals and does not affect the ability’s
    performance. (RoyGBV)
  - "Area of effect" both determines the length of the line the
    units/projectiles will emerge from, and how far they will travel
    before vanishing.
  - "Range" determines how far away the caster can start the stampede,
    NOT how far it can hit.

<span id="anchor-256"></span>-Storm, Earth and Fire:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANef Acef

Latest tested version: 1.29.2.9231

  - Morphs 1 unit into an array of other units.
    
      - > If all the units die the hero dies.

  - Hides casting unit from the map.

  - Redirects any kind of selection from that unit onto summons.

  - When all summons are killed, caster performs suicide (no killer
    known, no matter the way summons die).

  - Channel ability - interrupting caster anyhow will cancel it's effect
    completely, ending it prematurely.

  - When the ability is used as an item ability and the summons are all
    killed, the caster will enter a “undead” state, where its
    untargetable (Clanzion)
    
      - > The unit can attack others
    
      - > The unit will actually die if there are no units nearby and
        > its death time has been reached.
    
      - > If there are no units nearby, the unit will play its death
        > animation.
    
      - > The unit can be referenced and affected by some
        > triggers(mostly visual)

<span id="anchor-257"></span>-Summon Bear:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANsg

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Summons a unit, can only ever be 1 unit. 
    
      - > Any subsequent summons will remove previous ones.

  - Above statement is untrue, you can summon multiple bears. The claim
    likely refers to ‘Summon Misha’ which uses Feral Spirit as a base
    (Kino, tested 1.30++)

<span id="anchor-258"></span>-Summon Hawk / -Summon Quillbeast:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANsw ANsq

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Summons a unit for duration.

<span id="anchor-259"></span>-Summon Lava Spawn:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Very cool summon spell tbh.

RawCode: ANlm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Generation Count” (Notes below by RoyGBV)
    
      - > Effectively it’s how many times they can split before they
        > stop splitting, minus one.
    
      - > If you set this value to more than 3, then the lava spawn
        > summoned by splitting, including the original one, will have
        > their textures invisible once they split for the 4th time and
        > beyond.

  - “Data - Life Duration Split Bonus”
    
      - > When splitting this is how much bonus extra time they gain.

  - “Data - Max Hitpoint Factor”
    
      - > Upon successfully splitting, their hit points are restored by
        > \[maxHP \* the set number\] 

> (by default, its 0.50, meaning that it restores their HP by 50% of
> their max HP upon splitting) 

  - “Data - Split Attack Count”
    
      - > How many attacks it takes to split.

  - “Data - Split Delay”
    
      - > The time it takes before they split after reaching the
        > attacks.

  - ”Stats - Targets Allowed”
    
      - > This is actually the list of valid targets needed to add in
        > their attacks-to-split count. 
    
      - > Attacks need to actually land in order to count toward the
        > split count, meaning attacks that Miss do not count. 
    
      - > Attacking friendly, allied, or your own units doesn’t work,
        > only enemies. 

<span id="anchor-260"></span>-Tornado:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANto

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - A channeled summon.

  - Selectable for its owner, unselectable for enemies.

  - This ability seems to have some form of “Leash Range”, where it's
    instantly killed if it exceeds that range.
    
      - > Not sure about how much is the distance of this “Leash Range”,
        > but it is definitely not “Data - Cast Range”. (RoyGBV)
    
      - > Leash range is actually determined by “Wander (Tornado)”
        > ability, not the Tornado ability.

  - Stats - Duration 0 does not last indefinitely

<span id="anchor-261"></span>-Transmute:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANtm AIts

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Kills a target (defined in Targets Allowed) and give the gold/lumber
    back to the player.
    
      - > Unfortunately, it does not return Lumber (Khyrberos)
    
      - > Returns lumber in 1.36 atleast (Jaccouille)

<span id="anchor-262"></span>-Volcano:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANvc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This is the only ability that can generate destructibles in-game.
    (Wonder Wiz)

<span id="anchor-263"></span>-Watery Minion:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANwm Aslp AIwm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Summons units.

<span id="anchor-264"></span>@Neutral Passive:

<span id="anchor-265"></span>-Building Damage Aura:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Atdg

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Damage Per Second”, “Data - Medium Damage Per Second”, “Data
    - Small Damage Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values does not cause healing

  - Used by the Tornado unit from the “Tornado” ability. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-266"></span>-Slow Aura:

Tags: \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\] \[Attackspeed
Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\]

Notes: Has no icon by default therefore useful for various spell effects
which need a buff

RawCode: Aasl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack Speed factor”, “Data - Movement Speed Factor”
    
      - > Positive values increase speed.
    
      - > Negative values decrease speed.

  - Used by the Tornado unit from the “Tornado” ability. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-267"></span>-Summoning Ritual:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Ahnl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Its basically a Roar ability, meant for dummy ability use in
    campaign (StormKnight)

<span id="anchor-268"></span>-Tornado Spin:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Passive, aura-like version of cyclone

RawCode: Atsp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Data - Air Time
    
      - > Doesn’t seem to do anything, duration is instead controlled by
        > “Duration - Hero” and “Duration - Normal”. (RoyGBV) 

  - Data - Minimum Hit Interval
    
      - > Number of seconds it takes to cyclone another nearby unit.
        > (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-269"></span>-Tornado Wander:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Atwa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - When put on creeps, the AI will move the unit towards enemies even
    if they don’t have attack enabled. (Nudl)

<span id="anchor-270"></span>  
\-Parasite:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Decrease\]\[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Movespeed
Decrease\] \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Damage over time increase\]  

Notes: This single target ability at its default stage, when cast deals
damage over time and spawns a unit upon its victims death. Can not be
Dispelled, 

RawCode: ANpa ACpa(eredar)

Casting by AI: Parasite is always cast on the furthest target inside the
range

Latest tested version: 1.31

  - ”Data - Attack Speed Factor”, ”Data - Damage Per Second”, ”Data -
    Movement Speed Factor”, \*Data - Summoned unit Count\*,  
    \*Data - Summoned unit Duration\*, \*Data - Unit Type\*
    
      - > Negative values provides positive buffs instead.  
        > • Unlike all auto cast buff abilities that are only
        > automatically applied when units engage in combat, the unit
        > with this ability;  
        > will cast it on any unit that its targets allowed permits upon
        > sight, from allies to enemies to whatever.  
        > • Personal note: I think its quite advantageous for this
        > ability to not obey what other similar single target buff
        > abilities do. 

<span id="anchor-271"></span>@Special:

<span id="anchor-272"></span>-AOE damage upon death:

Tags: \[\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Adda Amnx Amnz

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Full Damage Amount”, “Data - Partial Damage Amount”
    
      - > Negative values does not cause healing.

<span id="anchor-273"></span>-Blight Dispel Large / -Blight Dispel
Small:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Abds Abdl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of Blight Growth Large

<span id="anchor-274"></span>-Burrow Detection:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Abdt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Seems to be a deprecated version of True Sight on a Flying unit.

\[this may explain the incomplete “ (Fliers” editor suffix, but who
knows\]

**-Cargo Hold (Goblin Zeppelin/Ships)**

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Sch3 Sch5

Latest tested version: 1.27.1.7085

  - As its name says, this ability is used for the storage component of
    transport units. (Notes below by RoyGBV)

  - Entering 0 in “Data - Cargo Capacity” causes the “Load/Unload”
    ability icons to disappear, and cannot load any units in.
    
      - > Cannot enter numbers higher than 8.
    
      - > However, the capacity for Ships is hardcoded to be at 10.

  - When loading in a unit with “Unit - Transported Size” value of more
    than 1, it places greyed out interface icons of the unit next to it.
    
      - > Units with a Transported Size value of 0 cannot be loaded in.
    
      - > Cannot Load units with the Doom debuff. Units with the
        > Parasite debuff can be loaded in, but they will die inside the
        > transport and the spawned unit will pop up outside the
        > transport.

  - “Stats - Area of Effect” is more like an unloading radius, which
    when filled with units on its AOE, causes the transport to stop
    unloading.
    
      - > Setting this to low values causes the transport to be unable
        > to fully drop down units, as the target point would be filled
        > with units early on, capping out its AOE.
    
      - > Setting this to high values eliminates the problem altogether.
    
      - > Do note that Area of Effect is still taken into account when
        > the transport dies on pathable ground, and that it will
        > instantly kill the other units in the transport if the AOE is
        > full.
    
      - > Negative AOE values are treated as positive values.

  - “Stats - Cast Range” is used for the actual loading-in of units.
    
      - > This does not bother with Unload, it’s a separate ability.

  - “Duration - Hero” does nothing.

  - “Duration - Normal” refers to the unloading time intervals per unit.

  - Loading in a unit disjoints projectiles similar to Blink, but does
    not prevent buffs from healing or damaging them

**-Cargo Hold Death**

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: By default, only Goblin Zeppelins have this ability

RawCode: Achd

Latest tested version: 1.27.1.7085

\[Ability and Descriptions added by RoyGBV\]

  - Casts some form of Purge (with no dispel) on all dropped units when
    a transport dies on pathable ground.
    
      - > This “Purge” uses a speed factor of 10 to slow both attack and
        > movement speed.
    
      - > The debuff cannot be dispelled.

  - “Data - Summoned Unit Damage” does nothing.

  - “Stats - Mana Cost” does nothing either.

<span id="anchor-275"></span>-Gold Mine Ability:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Agld

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Unit with this ability will be shown with a gold mine indicator on
    the map. The minimap icon stays even if they morph or lose the
    ability.

<span id="anchor-276"></span>-Harvest:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Ahar ANha

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Allows for gathering of resources from trees or goldmines.

  - The event (Targeting an object “harvest”) triggers upon resource
    return, not upon entering a gold mine.

  - “Data - Gold Capacity”
    
      - > Negative values are treated as 0.

  - “Data - Lumber Capacity”
    
      - > Negative values are treated as 0.

  - “Data - Damage to Tree”
    
      - > Negative values are treated as “kinda” 0.
        
          - Trees can still be harvested but they will never be chopped
            down and the worker will never get more than 0 lumber.

<span id="anchor-277"></span>-Inventory:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AInv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Item capacity”
    
      - > Values above 6 will clamp back to 6.
    
      - > Values below 0 will clamp back to 0.
    
      - > A value of 0 will allow for the unit to pick up tomes and
        > powerups, but not items.

  - One can give one hero multiple inventory skills to carry and use
    more than 6 items. But only one Inventory is visible.
    
      - > These additional Inventories have no UI.
    
      - > Trigger Item API ignores this additional inventories
    
      - > When the Hero gets revived, paused, reincarnated, ... Then
        > only the main inventory takes all the items again. To counter
        > that one needs to re-add the inventory skills. One of the
        > inventory skills can not be removed, but still can be added
        > allowing the hero to carry more and more items, when done.

  - “Data - Can Use Items” also dictates if it's allowed to pick up
    runes and tomes.

  - Units that pick up tomes that modify hero stats will crash if the
    unit is not a hero, or a “heroic” creature.

  - When given to a rooting unit, if the unit uproots, it will still
    benefit from items in its inventory, but will be unable to pick up
    more items.

<span id="anchor-278"></span>-Invulnerable:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Avul

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Makes a unit invulnerable.

<span id="anchor-279"></span>

<span id="anchor-280"></span>-Load (Goblin Zeppelin/Ships):

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aloa Sloa Slo2 Slo3

Latest tested version: 1.31.1

  - Loads the target into a transport

  - “Stats - Cast Range ”(Kino)
    
      - > Affects loading unit and loaded unit behaviour. Actual loading
        > range is affected by the ‘Stats - Cast Range’ of ‘Cargo Hold’
        > ability.) 
    
      - > If transporting unit is immobile, this field affects how far
        > away units can be ordered to board the transport
        > via-right-click (ie. Causes Orc Burrow behaviour)
    
      - > If the transporting unit is mobile, it will attempt to load
        > the target from the ‘Cast Range’ value. If this value exceeds
        > loading range, this causes nothing to happen.

  - Stats - Cast Time, Area of Effect, Targets, Duration - These fields
    do not appear to have an effect. (Kino)

<span id="anchor-281"></span>-Mine - exploding:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: You know that suicide bomber in class? This is him.

RawCode: Amin

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Activation Delay”
    
      - > Values below 0 are treated as 0, exploding immediately.

  - “Data - Invisibility Transition Time”
    
      - > Values below 0 causes it to never turn invisible.

<span id="anchor-282"></span>-Permanent Immolation:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: The accurate description of a person asking for \#rant back.

RawCode: ANpi Apmf Apig

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of Immolation
    
      - > Does not have a turn on/off button, always active.
    
      - > Having multiple levels does not work. Regular Immolation
        > doesn’t switch to higher level values until it’s deactivated
        > and reactivated, and since Permanent Immolation can’t be
        > deactivated and reactivated, it always uses its level 1
        > values. (EternalOne)

  - Since 1.35+, it’s possible to change an ability's real values, which
    makes it possible to make a multi-leveled Permanent Immolation, even
    though it will always use level 1’s (0’s in triggers) values.
    (PauloHPBender)
    
      - > 

<span id="anchor-283"></span>-Permanent Invisibility:

Tags: \[Special\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Apiv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Makes the unit invisible always, except for a moment after
    attacking/casting.
  - Setting Duration to 0 causes the unit to always stay invisible, even
    when attacking/casting.

<span id="anchor-284"></span>-Item Sight Range Bonus:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Allows to reduce vision of individual units and structures

RawCode: AIsi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Sight Range Bonus”
    
      - > Changes the value of the sight increment/reduction

  - Max sight range is still limited with 1800 for any unit.

  - Affects both day & night vision.

  - Negative values properly reduces unit's vision radius.

  - Has no effect on any other abilities (i.e. Truesight passive won't
    benefit of this).

  - Stats - Levels
    
      - > Having multiple levels does not work - changing levels does
        > not change the Sight Range Bonus value.

<span id="anchor-285"></span>-Phoenix Fire(flyer):

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Apmf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Unused version of the Permanent Immolation ability, presumably for
    the Phoenix unit. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-286"></span>-Poison Sting:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Apoi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - A non-slowing, damage only poison attack that stacks with itself.
    
      - > The projectile it uses
        > (“Abilities\\Weapons\\PoisonSting\\PoisonStingMissile.mdl”)
        > seems to be glitched. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-287"></span>-Rally:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: ARal

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Allows for you to set the rally point of a unit/building.
  - Automatically given to anything that trains units. You can remove
    the ability from the building to make it disappear.

<span id="anchor-288"></span>-Return Gold / Return Lumber:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Argl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Allows for this unit/building to receive Gold/Lumber from workers

<span id="anchor-289"></span>-Revenge:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Arng

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Deprecated???

<span id="anchor-290"></span>-Revive Hero:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Arev

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - :shrug:
  - Enables instant hero buyback, used by Neutral Tavern in the base
    game (Kino)

<span id="anchor-291"></span>-Select Hero / Select Unit:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aneu Ane2

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Shop selection for selecting Heroes with inventories
  - Allows anyone with vision to command the unit to use abilities and
    items, but not (directly) movement or attacking.

<span id="anchor-292"></span>-Sell Items / Sell Units:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Asid Asud

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Shop selection for units without inventories
  - Enables adding Items/Units to the shop (by trigger)

<span id="anchor-293"></span>-Shop Purchase Item:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Apit

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Effect that plays when item is purchased
  - Gives Gold/Lumber for items

<span id="anchor-294"></span>-Shop Sharing:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Aall

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Allow shop to share with allies?
  - Same as Select Unit except only works for allies.
  - Also exposes abilities to allies (e.g. if given to a town hall, your
    allies could cast call to arms for you)
  - If given to heroes, this ability allows players to learn new skills
    for them (great for computer controlled heroes). (PauloHPBender)

<span id="anchor-295"></span>-Unit Inventory:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Apak Aion Aihn Aien Aiun

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Inventory for units.
  - If the ability is removed, all items will drop on the ground.
  - If can use Item is active and non-hero obtain stat items, the game
    will crash (Daffa)

<span id="anchor-296"></span>-Unload:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Adro Sdro

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Used with “Load”.
  - Can be used with Devour to “regurgitate” units (Kino)

<span id="anchor-297"></span>-Wander (Neutral):

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Awan

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes this unit to wander around without purpose
  - Issues “move” command. The unit will be unable to acquire targets to
    attack while moving.
  - Adjusting cooldown or duration has no discernible effect.

<span id="anchor-298"></span>-Waygate / -Waygate Ability:

****Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Awrp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - A waygate can go inside itself (It's a one way trip though)

  - Setting the “Teleport Area Height/Width” changes how far the unit
    needs to be from the waygate before they can enter.
    
      - > For example setting it to 1150/1150 will make it possible for
        > units to enter the waygate while being as far away as a mortar
        > teams attack range.
    
      - > This does not change the destination size, the destination is
        > always at the center of a region / Location.

<span id="anchor-299"></span>-Blight Placement:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Places blight in a target area of size.
  - Only works when used as item ability.

<span id="anchor-300"></span>-Build Tiny X:

Tags: \[Unique\] \[Summon\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIbl AIbg AIbt AIbb AIbf AIbr AIbs AIbh

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Duration - Normal”
    
      - > The time it takes to build the unit/structure.

  - Build Tiny Scout tower:
    
      - > Order id = 852619

  - Works with ‘Unit finishes construction’ event (Kino)

<span id="anchor-301"></span>-Bundle of Lumber:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIlu

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Lumber Given”
    
      - > Negative numbers drain lumber instead.

<span id="anchor-302"></span>-Change Time of Day:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIct

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Sets the time of day for a duration.
  - Artificial “Night” and “Day” are colored purple or orange depending
    on the time. (Nudl)
  - Hour values are inputted in 24-hour format, meaning that a value of
    15 causes the time to be 3:00pm. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-303"></span>-Chest of Gold:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: What is a pirate without some booty?

RawCode: AIgo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Gold Given”
    
      - > Negative numbers drain gold instead.

<span id="anchor-304"></span>-Clarity Potion / -Generic Item-Rejuv
Effect / -Healing Salve:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\]

Notes: Very versatile state regenerator

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting “Allow when full” to false means that you can use the
    ability, even with full health/mana.

  - Setting “Dispel on attack” to false means that enemy attacks will
    not dispel the healing buff.
    
      - > Only physical attacks, or magical attacks dealing more than 20
        > damage actually dispels the buff.

<span id="anchor-305"></span>-Dark Summoning:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Seems mostly hardcoded?

RawCode: AUds

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Major info
  - With the flag set (true) Units will cluster to the casters position,
    With false units landing positions are relative equal to the caster
    as they were compared to the target point.
  - Only teleports own units, regardless of allowed target field.

<span id="anchor-306"></span>-Dust of Appearance:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AItb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Shows all invisible/burrowed units around this unit for a duration

<span id="anchor-307"></span>-Glyph of Fortification:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIgf AIgu

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Instantly research an upgrade for you.
    
      - > Provided that buildings (or units) have this upgrade listed in
        > the “Techtree - Upgrades Used” field.

  - Has 2 versions, one can be edited, one can not.
    
      - > The first version is Glyph of Fortification (code Algf), which
        > gives you bonus armor (defined in Combat - Defense Upgrade
        > Bonus), and bonus hit points (defined in the Glyph of
        > Fortification upgrade). (RoyGBV)
    
      - > The second version, oddly enough, is also called Glyph of
        > Fortification (code Algu), but instead is a 2-level ability
        > that first grants Glyph of Ultravision (defined in Glyph of
        > Ultravision), and then Ultravision (Night Elf ability).
        > (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-308"></span>-Item Agility Gain / -Item Intelligence
Gain / -Item Strength Gain:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIxm AIam AIim AIsm AIgm AItm AInm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes the Hero to gain attributes permanently.
    
      - > Negative values causes them to lose attributes.

<span id="anchor-309"></span>-Item Area Heal / -Mana Regain:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIha AIhb APh1 APh2 APh3 AImr APmr APmg AIre AIra APra

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Used by the Scroll kinds of items, except Town Portal. (RoyGBV)

<span id="anchor-310"></span>-Item Area tree / -wall damage:

Tags: \[Unused\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIdm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Deprecated ability, supposed to separately give Land Mines the
    ability to destroy trees and destructibles in an AOE, but is now
    handled by the “Targets Allowed” in the “AOE Damage upon Death
    (Goblin Mine)” of Land Mines instead. (RoyGBV) 

<span id="anchor-311"></span>-Item Armor Bonus:

Tags: \[Stackable\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AId1 AId2 AId3 AId4 AId5 AId7 AId8 AId0

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Gives this unit + Armor or - Armor

<span id="anchor-312"></span>-Item Attack Black Arrow Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIdf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

<span id="anchor-313"></span>-Item Attack Corruption Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIcb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

<span id="anchor-314"></span>-Item Attack Fire Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIfb AIgd

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

<span id="anchor-315"></span>-Item Attack Frost Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIob

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

<span id="anchor-316"></span>-Item Attack Lightning Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIlb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

  - If a unit has this ability or an item with this ability and the unit
    exceeds 99% bonus HP, it will die immediately upon creation

<span id="anchor-317"></span>-Item Attack Poison Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIpb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

<span id="anchor-318"></span>-Item Freeze Damage Bonus:

Tags: \[ORB\] \[TODO\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIzb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Stats - Enabled Attack Index”
    
      - > Enables this attack on this unit when the ability/item is
        > present.

  - “Art - Missile Art”
    
      - > Overrides units normal basic attack model

> When given to a hero unit, this ability turns hit enemies blue as if
> affected by a cold effect, and freezes them permanently in place, they
> stop moving entirely. A buff with the Sammy icon and “tool tip
> missing” is also added to the hit unit.

<span id="anchor-319"></span>-Item Attack Speed Bonus:

Tags: \[Attackspeed Increase\] \[Attackspeed Decrease\] \[Stackable\] 

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIsx AIs2

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack Speed Increase”
    
      - > Negative values slow attack speed instead.

<span id="anchor-320"></span>-Item Capture The Flag:

Tags: Tags

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIfl AIfm AIfo AIfn AIfe AIfl

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Totally cosmetic.

<span id="anchor-321"></span>-Item Chain Dispel:

Tags: Tags

Notes: This ability could use a better projectile model tbh

RawCode: AIdc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Dispels units with a bouncing wave?
  - This ability summons a projectile that bounces between units,
    dispelling each one.
  - The projectile has no delay between bounces, unlike Chain Lightning
    or Healing Wave.

<span id="anchor-322"></span>-Item Command:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIco

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of the Dark Ranger ultimate “Charm”.

<span id="anchor-323"></span>-Item Damage Bonus:

Tags: \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage Decrease\] \[Stackable\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AItg AIth AIti AIat AItj AIt6 AItk AItl AIt9 AItn AItc AItf
AItx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Attack Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values cause a unit to lose damage instead.
        
          - Damage can never be lower than minimum unit damage.

<span id="anchor-324"></span>-Item Dispel:

Tags: Copy

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIdi AIds APdi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Priest “Dispel”

<span id="anchor-325"></span>-Item Doom Guard Summon / -Item Felhound
Summon / -Item Furbolg Summon / -Item Ice Revenant Summon / -Item Red
Drake Summon / 

<span id="anchor-326"></span>-Item Rock Golem Summon / -Item Skeleton
Summon / -Item Ursa Warrior Summon / -Summon Headhunter:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: AIfd AIff AIfr AIfu AIfh AIfs AIir AIuw AIbd AIut AIes

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Summons up to 2 different kinds of units of selectable amounts each.

<span id="anchor-327"></span>-Item Experience Gain:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIem AIe2

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Experience Earned”
    
      - > Negative values causes the hero to lose experience… (But not
        > levels)

  - Cannot be used if at full level, regardless.

<span id="anchor-328"></span>-Item Healing:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIh1 AIh2 AIh3 AIhx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-329"></span>-Item Hero Stat Bonus:

Tags: \[Unique\] \[Stackable\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIs1 AIs3 AIs4 AIs6 AIa1 AIa3 AIa4 AIa6 AIaz AIi1 AIi3 AIi4
AIi6 AIx1 AIx2 AIx3 AIx4 AIx5

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Gives or removes stats from the hero for as long as the ability/item
    is attached.

<span id="anchor-330"></span>-Item Illusions:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIil

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Creates “Copies” of targeted unit.

  - Casting 2 illusions on the same unit at the same moment will result
    in a crash. (1.32.7) (ZiHeLL) 
    
      - > Unable to reproduce, this might only occur in very specific
        > circumstances, it was false or have been fixed. (somen00b) 

  - Attacking an illusion will not redraw aggro, you can attack one to
    detect whether it’s an illusion or not (Nudl).

  - “Data - Damage Dealt”
    
      - > Negative values does not cause healing.

  - “Data - Damage Received Multiplier”
    
      - > Negative values does not heal.

<span id="anchor-331"></span>-Item Immolation:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIcf

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Permanent Immolation Copy.

<span id="anchor-332"></span>-Item level gain:

****Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIlm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting to a negative value causes the hero to lose experience, but
    not to level down. (Irregular, Needs more testing\!)
  - Setting to a high value that goes beyond the hero max level will not
    make the hero go beyond max level.
  - Setting to 0 still causes the hero to gain a level or lose all XP...
    (Needs more testing\!)

<span id="anchor-333"></span>-Item Life Bonus:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIlf AIl1 AIl2 AIlz

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Max Life Gained”
    
      - > Negative values loses health instead.
    
      - > Going below 0 health causes flow issues, check “item permanent
        > life gain”

  - Using levels with this ability does not work, it always uses level
    1’s stats.

<span id="anchor-334"></span>-Item Life Regeneration:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\]

Notes: Cannot be leveled, always provides level 1 bonus only, no matter
what (1.26a, DracoL1ch)

RawCode: Arel Arll

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Hit Points Regenerated Per Second”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage instead.

<span id="anchor-335"></span>-Item Life Steal:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: Self harm

RawCode: AIva

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes these units' attacks to make them regain health.

  - Does not appear to work against buildings.

  - “Data - Life Stolen Per Attack”
    
      - > Negative values cause this unit to take damage instead.
    
      - > Ignores “Invulnerable”

<span id="anchor-336"></span>-Item Mana Bonus:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AImb AIbm AImz AImv AI2m

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Max Mana Gained”
    
      - > Negative values loses mana instead.
    
      - > Going below 0 mana causes unexpected behavior.

  - Using levels with this ability does not work, it always uses level
    1’s stats.

<span id="anchor-337"></span>-Item Mana Regain:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Get or lose mana

<span id="anchor-338"></span>-Item Mana Regeneration:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIrm AIrn

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Mana Regeneration Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values cause unit to start losing mana instead.

<span id="anchor-339"></span>-Item Move Speed Bonus:

Tags: \[Movespeed Increase\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIms

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Gives a unit more movement speed.
  - All negative values truncated to 0. (ZiHeLL)

<span id="anchor-340"></span>-Item Permanent Damage Gain:

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\] \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage
Decrease\]

Notes: Nullgoblin

RawCode: AIaa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes the unit to gain damage, or lose it. Permanently.
  - Setting it to 0 will cause nothing to happen. Good for dummy item
    pickup ability.

<span id="anchor-341"></span>-Item Permanent Life Gain:

Tags: \[Dummy Ability\] \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AImh AIpx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Setting to a negative value causes the hero to lose health. After
    reaching 0 health the hero dies.
    
      - > If you then revive the hero (using triggers or altar), the
        > heroes health will be underflowed to an unsigned 32 bit
        > number.
    
      - > At first it will have over 4000000000 health (int max). And
        > will keep decreasing.
        
          - Health does not work as intended at this high level, causing
            invulnerability.
    
      - > Increasing the health back up past the threshold makes it
        > return to normal health. (StormKnight)

  - Setting it to 0 will cause nothing to happen. Good for dummy item
    pickup ability.

<span id="anchor-342"></span>-Item Place Goblin Land Mine:

Tags: \[Summon\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIpm

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-343"></span>-Item Reincarnation:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIrc

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Item version of Reincarnation.

<span id="anchor-344"></span>-Item Reveal Entire Map:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Bullshit

RawCode: AIrv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Reveals the entire map for 5 seconds. This is bullshit. 

<span id="anchor-345"></span>-Item Sight Range Bonus:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIsi

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Sight Range Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values cause the unit to get less vision range (Needs
        > testing)

<span id="anchor-346"></span>-Item Soul Possession / -Item Soul Theft:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: This is probably one of the more interesting abilities.

RawCode: Asou AIso

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Captures a Hero that won't be freed until the carrying unit dies.

  - Adheres to Targets Allowed, which causes some interesting things to
    happen: (Notes below by RoyGBV)
    
      - > Casting this on Buildings causes them to disappear like you
        > would with a normal cast of this ability.
        
          - When the carrying unit dies, the Buildings will appear
            exactly at their death location, even on non-pathable or
            unbuildable ground such as deep water and the sides of
            cliffs. Multiple buildings being freed will stack on top of
            each other in a single location.
            
              - > When capturing an Undead building, the blight will
                > stay on where it originally was, but it can be
                > dispelled and cleared out by making non-Undead
                > buildings there.
            
              - > If the carrying unit dies and the Undead building is
                > freed somewhere far away from where it once was, the
                > blight is summoned again, oddly enough, at its
                > original location, and can still be dispelled and
                > cleared out by non-Undead buildings. Blight is never
                > created on the building’s new location.
            
              - > When capturing an Uprooted Night Elf Ancient, it will
                > disappear like usual, however when the carrying unit
                > dies on non-pathable ground, the freed Uprooted
                > Ancient cannot move, and since it is on non-pathable
                > ground, it cannot Root again and is effectively stuck
                > there permanently.
        
          - The following will happen when Soul Theft is cast on a
            building construction in progress:
            
              - > Humans: All workers, including the primary one from
                > which the build order came, will simply stop as if the
                > building was canceled. They will need to be manually
                > ordered to continue construction again once the
                > building is freed.
            
              - > Undead: The construction progress continues while
                > being captured. When completed, Blight is not created
                > until it is freed, and when freed, the blight will be
                > created, oddly enough, in its original location, which
                > can still be dispelled and cleared by non-Undead
                > buildings.
            
              - > Orc: Construction progress continues while being
                > captured. When completed, the Peon pops back up on the
                > building’s original location, whether the building is
                > freed or not.
            
              - > Night Elf: Same as Orcs.
            
              - > Buildings going through upgrades (Town Halls) will
                > still continue upgrading while captured, however it
                > cannot attack, cast abilities, or train units while
                > captured. 
            
              - > Unit training progresses will be paused on capture.
            
              - > Peasants can still use their own Call to Arms ability,
                > they will walk to the Town Hall’s original location as
                > if it was there.  
                > If the Town Hall is freed, they will walk to the new
                > location instead.
        
          - When the building is freed on non-pathable ground, units
            that are trained will be immediately teleported to the
            nearest valid pathable location.
    
      - > Casting Soul Theft on a Pocket Factory summoned by the ability
        > causes the building to disappear, but still have Clockwerks
        > summoned normally. This is because the Factory building itself
        > doesn’t actually summon units, but only serves as a condition
        > check to stop summoning units once it dies.
        
          - When the carrying unit dies in a location farther than the
            Leash Range set in the Pocket Factory ability, all
            previously summoned Clockwerks die, and new ones will spawn
            in the new location.
    
      - > Casting this on your Town Hall causes workers who are
        > gathering resources to act like it's there and return
        > resources on an invisible spot.
        
          - Works on Lumber Drop-off buildings as well (eg: Lumber Mill,
            Graveyard and War Mill)
          - Only hides the Town Hall, meaning that you won’t be revealed
            to the enemy units in a melee match.
          - When the carrying unit dies, the Town Hall reappears on that
            unit’s death location, and workers will immediately update
            their AI to start walking to that new updated location to
            return their gathered resources. Works the same for Lumber
            Drop-off buildings.
    
      - > When cast on a Gold Mine, causes Human and Orc workers to
        > simply continue mining from an invisible source. When the
        > carrying unit dies, the AI of Peasants and Orcs will update,
        > and they will now start walking to the new location to harvest
        > gold.
        
          - For Night Elves, casting this on an Entangled Gold Mine
            causes it to disappear along with the wisps, and prevents
            you from gaining any gold. When the carrying unit dies, the
            Entangled Gold Mine appears at the unit’s death location and
            acts normally again, letting you gain gold.
          - For Undead, casting this on a Haunted Gold Mine causes it to
            disappear, and while the Acolytes will still play their
            animation, you won’t gain any gold. When the carrying unit
            dies, the Haunted Gold Mine will appear on the carrying
            unit’s death location, and Acolytes will stop playing
            their animation and the white pentagonal effect on the
            ground disappears. However you can select and order your
            Acolytes to harvest gold from the new location normally
            again.
    
      - > Casting this on enemy Heroes causes them to disappear, but
        > their interface icons are still present and you will be
        > revealed to their team, almost as if you cast Devour on that
        > Hero. Same thing happens to non-Hero units.
    
      - > Casting this on yourself (provided that “Self” was included in
        > Targets Allowed), causes you to disappear, but still have your
        > interface icons on if you were a Hero. However, since the
        > captured unit is only freed when the capturing unit dies, you
        > are never freed, also selecting yourself permanently freezes
        > the game.

  - Casting Soul Theft on a summoned unit does not pause its expiration
    timer, it will still continue ticking down and will still expire as
    usual.

  - Does not interrupt morphing animations, and the unit will finish
    morphing and start ticking its morph timer (if it has one) while
    being captured.

  - “Duration - Hero” and “Duration - Normal” don’t do anything. This
    ability is hard-coded to last indefinitely until the carrying unit
    dies.

<span id="anchor-347"></span>-Item Temporary Area Armor Bonus:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Flat Armor Increase\] \[Flat Armor Decrease\] 

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIda AIdb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Defense bonus” “Data - Hit Points Gained” “Data - Mana
    Points Gained”
    
      - > Negative values cause loss of said abilities.

<span id="anchor-348"></span>-Item Temporary Invisibility:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIv1 AIv2

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Makes unit invisible for duration

<span id="anchor-349"></span>-Item Temporary Invulnerability:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIvu AIvl AIvg

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Makes unit Invulnerable for duration
  - Many channeling spells like staff of teleportation or starfall will
    dispel this. Use divine shield if you want the same effect without
    this behavior.

<span id="anchor-350"></span>-Item Temporary Speed Bonus:

Tags: \[Movespeed Increase\] \[Movespeed Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIsp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Move Speed Increase”
    
      - > Negative values causes slowdown.

<span id="anchor-351"></span>-Item Town Portal:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AItp

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Causes the unit to become invulnerable and teleport to a town hall.
  - Double clicking this item in the inventory causes you to quickly
    town portal to your highest tier town hall.

<span id="anchor-352"></span>-Mechanical Critter:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: I never really was on your side

RawCode: Amec

Latest tested version:1.29.2.9231

  - Creates a random Critter that will be ignored by enemies unless they
    specifically attack it.
  - Morphing doesn’t remove its effects
  - The unit is not shown on the minimap.
  - Mechanical critter doesn’t get auto targeted by enemies but they
    will fight it if it attacks them. If it loses aggro (such as by
    attacking its allied unit) enemies will go back to happily ignoring
    it.

<span id="anchor-353"></span>-Melee Cold Damage Bonus / -Melee Fire
Damage Bonus / -Melee Lightning Damage Bonus:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[ORB\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copies of other orb effects, except they simply have the enable
    attack index as 0

<span id="anchor-354"></span>-Monster Lure:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: I am totally unsure wtf this is, is it an item for some campaign?
Did i miss something?

RawCode: AImo

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  -  This basically functions like Taunt, except they dont attack the
    lure since the ability is hardcoded to always summon the lure to
    belong to the player “Neutral Passive.”

<span id="anchor-355"></span>-Orb of Darkness:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Item version of dark rangers Black Arrow

<span id="anchor-356"></span>-Orb of Slow:

Tags: \[ORB\]

Notes: Proc % chance to cast any given spell when the unit attacks.

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  -  Gives a chance to apply Slow debuff as if it were casted by
    someone.
  - If a unit has this ability or an item with this ability and the unit
    exceeds 99% bonus HP, it will die immediately upon creation

<span id="anchor-357"></span>-Penguin Squeek:

Tags: \[Alright Then\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIpz

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Just a healing potion that has a custom sound effect.

<span id="anchor-358"></span>-Poison Sting:

Tags: \[Copy\] \[ORB\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Orb of Venom

<span id="anchor-359"></span>-Powerup Area Healing:

Tags: \[Healing\]

Notes: I need healing

RawCode: APh1 APh2 APh3

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Hit Points Gained”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage instead.

<span id="anchor-360"></span>-Random Item:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Thinking

RawCode: AIri

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Replaces an item with a random ‘Replenishment potion’-based item of
    appropriate level.
    
      - > transforms into items that have the morph-value enabled

  - 

<span id="anchor-361"></span>-Reanimation:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AInd

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Copy of Dark Knight’s Animate Dead, but only uses one corpse.

<span id="anchor-362"></span>-Rebirth:

Tags: \[Summon?\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIrb

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Revives the unit that it was dropped by and taken control by the
    player.
  - Uses the unit’s food cost, but does not inherit upgrades.
  - When the rebirthed unit dies, it poofs out and leaves no corpse.

<span id="anchor-363"></span>-Regeneration Aura:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Amount of hit points regenerated”
    
      - > Negative values cause damage.

<span id="anchor-364"></span>-Spell Book:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: Aspb

Latest tested version: 1.29.2.9231

  - Allows the user to open up a new menu in their unit to use
    abilities.

  - Should be stackable with different orderids?

  - The original way to hide abilities before the new coordinate hiding.

  - Changing the orderid to a build ability transforms the spellbook to
    a build menu.
    
      - > Shows the buildings that unit can already build in its
        > building list
    
      - > Spells indicated in OE will replace the button position of a
        > building.
    
      - > Hiding the build ability through triggers will remove the
        > building list from the spellbook too
        
          - Hiding the button through Leandrotp’s method or (0, -11) is
            the only way to prevent it.
          - The build ability hidden this way still allows units to
            build the buildings if triggered to do so.

  - Using the same orderId for two spell book abilities fuses the
    contents of both into the same menu.

  - If a unit has this ability or an item with this ability and the unit
    exceeds 99% bonus HP, it will die immediately upon creation

<span id="anchor-365"></span>-Spell Damage Reduction:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIsr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Decrease spell damage taken by a %.
  - Apparently can be used to take more damage?
  - Can break elune grace skills obtained by the unit

<span id="anchor-366"></span>-Spell Immunity:

Tags: \[Magic Immunity\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AImx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Magic Damage Factor”
    
      - > Flat dmg block vs AttackTypeMagic (requires Game constant
        > MagicImmunesResistDamage=0)
    
      - > Anything above 0 reduces taken dmg.
    
      - > Anything below 0 increases taken dmg. 

<span id="anchor-367"></span>-Spell Shield:

Tags: \[Magic Immunity\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANss

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Blocks 1 spell and then requires a cooldown.
  - If used as an ability, it can be actively used. This can be pretty
    dangerous when a secondary effect is placed with triggers to this
    ability (Daffa)

<span id="anchor-368"></span>-Staff of Preservation:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANpr

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Teleports targeted unit to highest tier townhall, or another factory
    if not applicable

<span id="anchor-369"></span>-Staff of Sanctuary:

Tags: \[Unique\] \[Healing\] \[Healing Over Time\] \[Damage Over Time\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: ANsa

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Unit/Hero regeneration delay is the time it takes until they start
    healing.
    
      - > At negative it’s treated as 0.

  - Hit points per second is how much it heals a second.
    
      - > At negative values it does damage your unit until it dies.
        
          - Unless it gets fully healed from another source and the
            effect is broken.

  - Magic Damage Reduction does not in fact appear to do anything at
    all, the units appears “spell immune”.

<span id="anchor-370"></span>-Staff of Teleportation:

Tags: \[Copy\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AImt

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - This is a copy of the archmage ultimate.

<span id="anchor-371"></span>-Steal:

Tags: \[Healing Over Time\]

Notes: Steals health or mana from a target.

RawCode: Aste

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Used by the item Wand of Mana Stealing.
    
      - > Seems to function like Dark Ritual, but seems to not always
        > work as intended.

<span id="anchor-372"></span>-Tome of Retraining:

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Very underrated item tbh.

RawCode: Aret

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Unlearns all spells and allow for you to pick new ones.

<span id="anchor-373"></span>-Vampiric Potion:

Tags: \[Healing\] \[Flat Damage Increase\] \[Flat Damage Decrease\]

Notes: Null

RawCode: AIpv

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - “Data - Life Steal Amount”
    
      - > Negative values causes unit to take damage instead.
    
      - > Ignores invulnerable status.

  - “Data - Damage Bonus”
    
      - > Negative values causes damage loss.

<span id="anchor-374"></span>-Wand Of Shadowsight:

Tags: \[Vision\]

Notes: Text

RawCode: Ashs

Latest tested version: 1.32.10.18820

  - A copy of Faerie Fire, except it doesn’t reduce armor, and its
    duration is permanent. It Can be dispelled though. (RoyGBV)
  - Doesn’t appear to have an order string in the ability editor, but it
    actually does. The order string is “shadowsight” with order number
    852570 (EternalOne)

<span id="anchor-375"></span>

<span id="anchor-376"></span>-Chaos / -Berserker Upgrade:

Tags: \[Morph\]

Notes: This is the ultimate Morph Ability tbh. Simple and quick and good
for triggers, has some glaring issues tho.

RawCode: Sca1 Sca2 Sca3 Sca4 Sca5 Sca6 Srtt Sbsk

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Morphs unit into another unit once the techtree requirements have
    been met.
  - If the hero has an ability that gives permanent health it causes the
    hero to gain immense amounts of health. Eventually overflowing.
  - Heroes that are Chaos keep their spot in the hero list, along with
    any control group they are in.
  - Units also keep their control group.
  - The hero keeps their current attributes.
  - The hero keeps their current Str/Agi/Int per level.
  - Other Hero related information will also be kept (like Hero
    abilities/XP/Level) and will not be overwritten by heroic abilities
    from the other hero.
  - Normal abilities will be overwritten by the normal abilities on the
    new hero.
  - If any item or aura buff obtained (i.e. providing bonus armor), it's
    effect may become part of the unit forever, which heavily limits
    usage of this ability in common. Interaction depends on the base
    ability which is the source of the bonus.
  - The instance API and Skin system might be a better choice in 1.32+
    instead of this ability.

**-Item Attack Heal Reduction Bonus:**

Tags: \[Orb\] \[Buff Unstackable\] \[Healing\] \[Flat Damage Increase\]

Notes: This reduces healing effects from most hit point regeneration
sources.

RawCode: AIf2

Latest tested version: 1.31.1.12164

  - Multiple copies of the ability do not appear to stack. More testing
    is needed.

  - The most recent buff applied by a copy of this ability takes
    precedence.

  - “Data - Healing Multiplier”
    
      - > Values higher than 1.00 will amplify healing effects.
        
          - This may cause a visual bug where the buff will not show up.
    
      - > Values lower than 1.00 will reduce healing effects.
    
      - > Values lower than or equal to 0 will be treated as 0.01.

<span id="anchor-377"></span>-UnselectAble (Internal name:
CAbilityLeash) :

Tags: \[Unique\]

Notes: Need to be defined in units/abilitydata.slk

<span id="anchor-378"></span>RawCode: Alea

Latest tested version: Unknown

  - Makes an Unit unselectable but targetable. 
  - returns "attack" to abi Gained Position when aoe away.
  - Hide & Unhide -\> Selecatable but still returns on aoe distance.
  - Remove Abi unit Hide & unit Unhide unit is normal again
  - 

<span id="anchor-379"></span>@Template:

<span id="anchor-380"></span>-Ability name:

Tags: Tags

Notes: Text

<span id="anchor-381"></span>RawCode: xxxx

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Major info
    
      - > Additional info same topic
        
          - Notes regarding that part of the information.

  - Major info 2

<span id="anchor-382"></span>-Null:

Tags: \[TODO\]

Notes: Null

Latest tested version: 1.28.5.7680

  - Null

<span id="anchor-383"></span>@Index:

\[Percent Damage Increase\]Makes unit gain total/bonus damage.

\[Percent Damage Decrease\]Makes unit lose total/bonus damage.

\[Percent Damage Taken Increase\]Makes unit sensitive to damage.

\[Percent Damage Taken Decrease\]Makes unit resistant to damage.

\[Percent Magic Taken Increase\]Makes unit sensitive to ability damage.

\[Percent Magic Taken Decrease\]Makes unit resistant to ability damage.

\[Movespeed Increase\]Increases MoveSpeed by % or flat

\[Movespeed Decrease\]Reduces MoveSpeed by % or flat

\[Attackspeed Increase\]Increases AttackSpeed by % or flat

\[Attackspeed Decrease\] Reduces AttackSpeed by % or flat

\[Percent Armor Increase\]Increases total/bonus armor by percentage of
current armor

\[Percent Armor Decrease\]Decreases total/bonus armor by percentage of
current armor

\[Flat Armor Increase\]Increases total/bonus armor

\[Flat Armor Decrease\]Decreases total/bonus armor

\[Flat Damage Increase\]Increases total/bonus damage

\[Flat Damage Decrease\]Decreases total/bonus damage

\[Flat Damage Taken Increase\]Increases total/bonus damage taken.

\[Flat Damage Taken Decrease\]Decrease total/bonus damage taken.

\[Flat Health Increase\]Increases total health

\[Flat Health Decrease\]Reduces total health

\[AOE Supportive\]Some kind of boost for an area.

\[AOE Disabling\]Some kind of disable for an area.

\[Multi Attack Target\]Causes attacks to hit multiple targets.

\[Vision\]Provides vision

\[Healing\]Heals unit/units  
\[Healing Over Time\] Heals health over time to unit/s (HOT) ;)

\[Damage Over Time\]Deals damage over time to unit/s (DOT)

\[Magic Immunity\]Provides immunity to magic (spells & (Magic-damage)
attacks)

\[Mana Drain\]Drains mana

\[Mana Regen\]Regenerates mana

\[Summon\]Summons units.

\[Suppressed\]Suppresses unit from doing anything for a duration.

\[Morph\]Morph unit into something else.

\[Dummy Ability\]The ability to use this ability without it actually
doing anything productive except for triggers.

\[Buff Stackable\]This ability has verified that it allows buff
stacking.

\[Buff Unstackable\]This ability has verified that it does not allow
buff stacking.

\[Stackable\]The ability properties can stack with itself in some way,
this doesn’t count buff stacking.

\[Uninterrupting\]Unit does not give shits //TODO

\[Transient\]                      Does not Interrupt the current Action

\[TODO\]This tag defines any ability that has not been documented yet.
That means it does not have any tags or information written about it.

\[Unique\]Most abilities in this game are unique, but this refers to
weird abilities like the Waygate ability that provides weird/interesting
interactions.

\[Copy\]A copy of another skill (with possible small changes)

\[Unused\]A skill that is unused by blizzard and probably deprecated.
